A Game By
Jon Gilmour & Doug Levandowski

Art By 
Heather Vaughan, JJ Moore, Monica Magaña, Andy Gruba 

 
Copyeditors

S Gavis-Hughson, Nick Sauer, & Dustin Schwartz
Graphic Design & Layout 

Matthias Bonnici



KIDS ON BIKES - DELUXE EDITION
Game Creators: Jon Gilmour & Doug Levandowski
Illustrator: Heather Vaughan, JJ Moore, Monica Magaña, Andy Gruba
Graphic Design & Layout: Matthias Bonnici
Lead Copyeditor: Dustin Schwartz
Copyeditors: S Gavis-Hughson & Nick Sauer

Renegade Game Studios - San Diego, California
Hunters Entertainment - Burbank, California
 
All text and artwork in this book are  
©2018 Hunters Entertainment LLC. All rights reserved

www.renegadegames.com www.huntersbooks.com
Facebook: facebook.com/PlayRGS facebook.com/HuntersEntertainment
Twitter: @PlayRenegade @OutbreakUndead
Instagram: @renegade_game_studios

RGS4808
ISBN-13: 978-0-9998548-0-8

10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
 
Made in China



Deluxe Edition



























Table of Contents

SETTING BOUNDARIES
PAGE 3

WORLD BUILDING
PAGE 5

CHARACTER CREATION
PAGE 9

PLAYING THE GAME
PAGE 27

POWERED CHARACTERS
PAGE 41

INFORMATION FOR THE GM
PAGE 47

APPENDIX A - RELATIONSHIP QUESTIONS
PAGE 56

APPENDIX B - STRENGTHS
PAGE 59

APPENDIX C - FLAWS
PAGE 61

APPENDIX D - POSSIBLE ASPECTS FOR POWERED CHARACTERS
PAGE 62

APPENDIX E - TROPES
PAGE 66

APPENDIX F - DIFFICULTY RATINGS AND CONSEQUENCES
PAGE 72

BLANK CHARACTER SHEET
PAGE 75

Deluxe Edition Adventure Modules
PAGE 77



Kids on Bikes
The door to the old house creaks open, 
the rust on the hinges groaning as you 
see the dust floating like spores in the air 
inside. By the faint light of your cheap flash-
lights, you see the stairs to the upper floor, 
its railings gnarled and broken like crooked 
teeth. Their curve makes the stairs seem 
almost like a hungry grin, and you wonder if 
their age will support your weight. Still, you 
must go in. 

The only question is who will go first?

In Kids on Bikes, you’ll take on the roles of 
everyday people grappling with strange, 
terrifying, and exceptionally powerful forces 
that they cannot defeat, control, or even fully 
understand. The only way to face them is to 
work together, use your strengths, and know 
when you just have to run as fast as you can.

NOTE: Most of this book is written with players in mind 
and directed toward them. GMs, all of this information 

will be pertinent to you, too, and we’ve included 
more information for you at the end 

of the book, starting on page 47.






- Setting Boundaries -
Before starting to create your characters, you and the gamemaster (GM) 
should address the kinds of things that the players want to see in the game 
and the things they don’t want to see. You’ll already have agreed on the over-
all tone you want the game to have, but it’s important to know what narrative 
elements might upset players so the group can avoid them. Doing so will 
make the game more enjoyable for everyone. To start this process, the GM 
will ask whether the players would like to discuss these boundaries or simply 
give the GM lists.

If players agree to have a discussion, everyone will talk about what they’re 
okay with and what they want to avoid. During this discussion, don’t ask 
others to explain why they don’t want certain elements in the game; take 
their requests at face value and respect them. However, do feel free to ask 
for clarification.

If players would rather give the GM lists, they’ll each write down the topics 
they’d like to avoid, and the GM will compile that list anonymously. As with 
the other method, there shouldn’t be discussion of why players don’t want to 
address certain topics.

In addition to the group’s comfort, another factor to consider while estab-
lishing boundaries is where you’re playing the game. If you’re playing in the 
privacy of your own home or in a conference room at a convention, you 
only need to consider the players’ preferences. However, if you’re in a public 
place, if you’re around younger people, or if there are other factors beyond 
the preferences of the group, you should consider them when establishing 
boundaries. In general, you should be playing the game in a way that will 
be comfortable for everyone who may hear it. For example, your group may 
be comfortable addressing issues of race in ’50s suburbia — but if you’re in 
public, everyone who overhears you might not be. Try to keep this in mind 
and be respectful to anyone who might overhear your game.

If, during the game, someone accidentally brings up one of the topics that 
should be avoided — or if anything that is part of the story is making you 
uncomfortable — simply knock quickly and lightly on the table. Whoever is 
currently narrating should simply rewind and proceed down a different path. 
There is no need to discuss your request to go in a different direction; the 
group will just move on with the story in another direction.

PAGE 3






- World Building -
Kids on Bikes should probably be set in a small town at any point in history 
before everyone had a video camera in their pocket at all times. It should 
probably be a place remote enough that the rest of the world just doesn’t 
care about it but close enough that black helicopters can be there within 
hours. Everyone in the town probably knows everyone else — for better 
or for worse. People look out for each other, but rumor also travels fast. 
Ultimately, though, this is all up to you.

We recommend letting the players work together to craft the town, possibly in 
a short session prior to playing, or even during the same session if the players 
are okay with the GM thinking on their feet.

For groups who aren’t comfortable creating their world together or for 
groups who want to dive right into the gameplay, the GM can also create a 
setting for the group instead, answering the questions below ahead of time 
and then sharing the answers with the group to start the game.

Collaborative Creation
If you choose to collaboratively build the world, players should first agree 
on the tone they want the game to take — whether that’s serious, goofy, or 
somewhere in the middle. This decision will help guide the decisions you’ll 
make when creating the town. As with the rest of the game, there are no 
wrong answers here! It’s whatever you want the game to be.

Second, all players should discuss the era in which you want the adventure 
to take place. Early ’80s? Mid ’60s? Present day? Since the time period will 
have such a strong impact on the course of the game, make this decision as 
a group, with as much discussion as you need.

If you choose to build the world together, answer the following questions to 
create the location, adapting the number of questions asked, as indicated 
below, so that each player is answering the same number of questions about 
the town.

1. Our adventure takes place in… (name of town and state)
2. The industry our location is best known for is…
3. Our town is famous for…
4. Our town is infamous for...
5. Economically, our town is… (prospering, floundering, stagnant, etc.)
6. A notable local organization is… (Duplicate in a five-player game.)
7. A notable local landmark is… (Duplicate in a three-player game or

five-player game.)
8. Our school’s sports team is called…

After constructing the town, each player shares one rumor about the town. 

PAGE 5



Especially in a small town, rumors drive a lot of what goes on. The GM writes 
these rumors down, keeping them in mind so that they can influence the 
upcoming game — though there may be sources for the rumor that the| 
players can’t even imagine. Also, not all rumors have any truth to them. 
Finally, keep in mind that as long as you’re within the bounds of what the 
group has agreed to include in the game, there are no wrong answers.

For Example: Carlos goes first and says that they’re in a town called 
Perkins, Colorado. Yasmin follows and says that the town is best known 
for mining. Emily then says that the town is famous for its candles, 
which it has made and sold to the world for years. Carlos then says that 
the town is infamous for a mining accident that trapped twelve miners 
underground a decade ago. Yasmin decides that the town is econom-
ically floundering as people move away from coal energy. Emily says 
that a notable local organization is the Elks, an organization that most 
of the adult men in the town belong to. Carlos says that one notable 
local landmark is the closed mine that no one is allowed to go near. 
Yasmin adds that another notable landmark is the diving cliff, a place 
where teens often jump into the river that surges during the late spring 
thaw. Emily rounds out the answers by saying that the high school’s 
sports team is called the Mountain Lions.

As they move into the rumors, Carlos says that he heard that the Elks 
is really a front for a devil-worshipping cult. Yasmin says that she heard 
that Mr. Worthy, the principal of the high school, is carrying on an affair 
with Mrs. Yates, the principal of the middle school. Finally, Emily says 
that she heard that when they found the bodies of the trapped miners, 
two were missing — and that the ten that were recovered seemed to 
have been attacked by some sort of animal.

Gautier, the GM, should abide by the elements that the players created 
for the town. But over the course of the game, the GM and the players 
can decide together whether any — or all — of those rumors are true.

Our Suggestions
We suggest that the game takes place in a town where children can ride their 
bicycles from one side of town to the other relatively quickly, probably in 
under an hour — so a town that’s no more than ten miles across. A town 
this size also allows non-player characters (NPCs) to spread information and 
rumors more quickly — and for NPCs who are important to the characters to 
hear about these rumors just as quickly. And, more frighteningly, it prevents the 
characters from having a lot of places to hide. It’s also important that there 
will be parts of town that are empty, especially at night. In a place like New 
York City, nothing could happen without at least a few people seeing it…

PAGE 6



A note about historical accuracy: While avoiding anachronisms makes the 
experience more realistic, nobody likes that person at the table who says, 
“Well, actually, the Millennium Falcon toy in question wasn’t released until 
1978!” Just roll with it — unless a person in 1973 whips out a smartphone. In 
general, leave it to the GM to correct any necessary anachronisms.

Multiple Sessions
We hope that you’ll enjoy Kids on Bikes enough to play it over multiple 
sessions, developing and growing your characters and the world around 
them. Assuming that time has elapsed in the world of the game between 
sessions, before you start a new session, each player should explain one thing 
that has changed in the town between then and now — big or small. Perhaps 
it’s a new rumor that’s floating around. Perhaps in the time between the last 
adventure and the new one, things have changed about the town, like the mill 
that was struggling finally closed, or the school mysteriously burned down. 
These new events can help to drive the narrative of the new game — and give 
the players some control over where the story goes.

For Example: In the story, the characters go into the mine to see if 
there’s any truth to the rumors. They find another body down there, 
another one of the miners, but it has been very badly attacked... by 
what seem like human teeth. And they swear that they hear something 
down there with them, but it is too dark to really see. At the start of their 
next game, Emily says that she heard that some of the livestock around 
town have started to go missing — victims of strange, midnight attacks. 
Yasmin says that one change to the town is that government agents 
have come in to investigate the mine further after the group’s discovery. 
Carlos says that a new restaurant has opened up, and the food isn’t 
very good — but all of the Elks seem to always be there. Again, the 
rumors may be true or they may not be. But the changes to the town 
(in this case, the arrival of government agents and the opening of a new 
restaurant) should be taken as fact.

PAGE 7






- Character Creation -
The core of any RPG is the character you’ll be embodying. You and your GM 
should work together to agree upon a character you’ll be excited to play. One 
who reminds you of yourself in important ways — but who also is different 
enough from you to be an escape from the real world.

If there are boundaries that you want the characters to have or modifications 
that you want to make to the creation process, as a player or GM, please do! 
The core of the game is the experience that the players will have, and 
anything you want to do to augment that experience is great. 

Process Overview
When creating your character, you’ll move through the following steps, likely 
in this order:

1. Select a trope from the Playbook and take the appropriate
character sheet.

2. Make trope selections for your character: age, strengths, flaws,
first name.

3. Introduce your character to the rest of the group.
4. Answer questions about your character’s relationship with the

other characters in the game.
5. Complete the finishing touches for your character: motivations,

fears, backpacks, last name, trope-specific questions.

Selecting a Trope
To streamline the character creation process, we’ve created a set of tropes 
that you can use at the start of game to get into character more quickly. These 
tropes, which fall into categories like Loner Weirdo, Stoic Professional, or 
Brilliant Mathlete, will determine your character’s stat dice and streamline 
some choices for you. Tropes can be found in the Playbook, which is available 
at huntersbooks.com/downloads-kidsonbikes. Alternatively, you can find 
the information for these tropes in Appendix E on page 66.

Choose the trope that you’re most interested in playing. There’s no right or 
wrong answers here, and your GM will work with you to make sure that, what-
ever character you choose, you’ll be central to the story of the game. And re-
member, selecting a trope does not mean that you’ll be forced into a certain 
style of play. True, the Brutish Jock isn’t going to be as charming as the Pop-
ular Kid, but, as in life, be careful not to assume too much about a personality 
based on only a few descriptors.

If you don’t find a trope that fits your sense of your character, feel free to 
work with the GM to create your character from the ground up! This will take 
more time, but for players who already have a clear vision of who they want 
their character to be — or for players who don’t want their character to fit 
into one trope or another — this might be the most satisfying way to 
create a character. (For more details on this process, refer to “Creating a 
Character from Scratch” on page 24.)

PAGE 9



In the bottom right corner of your trope sheet, you’ll find two questions 
specific to your trope and, likely, your age. These will help you flesh out who 
you are. You don’t need to answer these out loud, but by the end of the 
character creation process, you should know what your answers are.

Character Stats
The trope you choose will determine how you assign dice to your six stats. 
The higher the possible value on a die, the better your character is with that 
stat. The six stats are:

Brains: This stat determines how book-smart a character is. This will 
determine how well they understand problems, how well they did or 
are doing in school, and how quickly they’re able to solve academic 
problems.

Brawn: This stat determines how much brute strength a character has. 
It does not determine how well they can fight — just how well they 
can lift things and how much physical damage they can take. It also 
determines how physically intimidating a character is.

Fight: This stat determines how good a combatant a character is with 
whatever weapons or fighting skills you decide your character knows. 
While a character with a high Fight stat won’t be able to pick up a gun 
and use it effectively if they have never fired one before, this stat will 
make them good with weapons that they do have experience with. Also, 
they’ll be able to learn how to use new weapons and fighting skills more 
easily, if given proper training.

Flight: This stat determines how fast a character is — as well as how 
skilled they are at evading their problems (both literally and figura-
tively). Characters with a high Flight stat will be fast and tough to trap 
both physically and verbally.

Charm: This stat determines how socially adept a character is and 
how good they are at reading the emotions of another person or 
group of people. Characters with a high Charm stat will be able to talk 
themselves out of tough situations and into good ones with relative 
ease — within reason.

Grit: This stat determines how hard it is to break a character emotion-
ally or physically. Characters with a high Grit stat will be able to keep 
a level head in the worst of situations and will be able to keep their 
cool even when pushed hard. Finally, this stat also determines how 
street-smart a character is.

The higher a stat is, the better a character is at skills involving that stat — and 
the more likely they are to succeed when using that stat. While there’s no 
guarantee that you’ll roll your maximum, generally, characters will be better 
able to pass checks with their higher dice.

PAGE 10



Die Brief Explanation
Superb — Even upon first meeting you, anyone would be able 

d20 to readily tell that this is a strength of yours. You are remarkably 
good with respect to this stat.
Impressive — People who know you would say that you’re pretty 

d12 good with respect to this stat, but it wouldn’t be something 
that’s obvious during a first encounter.

d10 Above Average — You aren’t remarkably good in terms of this 
stat, but you’re slightly above average.

Below Average — You aren’t too bad in terms of this stat, but 
d8 you’re certainly not good, either. You’re just slightly worse 

than average.
Bad — People who know you would say that you’re pretty bad 

d6 with respect to this stat, but it wouldn’t be something that’s 
obvious during a first encounter.
Terrible — Upon first meeting you, people would immediately 

d4 be able to tell that this is a weakness of yours. You are remark-
ably bad with respect to this stat.

When creating your character, think carefully about how your d20 stat and 
your d4 stat balance each other out. If your character has a d20 in Charm and 
a d4 in Flight, consider what that means for your character. Have they always 
talked their way out of their problems instead of having to run from them — 
including gym class? Or were they always so slow that they had to use humor 
and kindness to compensate for their inability to escape? Think about how 
your other stats relate to this balance, too.

Stats will also be used to resolve skill checks and combat, which we’ll 
address in “Stat Checks” on page 27 and “Combat Encounters” on page 34.

Character Ages
For some of the tropes, you’ll also need to pick your character’s age: child, 
teen, or adult. Groups of characters can certainly be a mixture of all three 
ages. The GM and the players will just need to establish early on what draws 
their characters together for their first adventure. For future adventures, you’ll 
be linked by the events of the first session. The age of the characters has 
implications throughout the character creation process and during gameplay. 
The rules will discuss these implications as they become important.

At the start of the character creation process, the character’s age determines 
what strengths each character gets for free — and what modifiers they have 
to roll with their stat dice.

Children automatically receive the Quick Healing strength, and they cannot 
take the Rebellious strength. When rolling stat checks (described in the “Stat 

PAGE 11



Checks” section, starting on page 27), children add +1 to their Flight 
and Charm checks, as they’re fast and likeable.

Teens automatically receive the Rebellious strength. When rolling stat checks, 
teens add +1 to their Fight and Brawn checks, as they’re pugnacious and in 
their prime.

Adults automatically receive the Skilled at ___ strength. This skill will corre-
spond to their profession — either legal or illegal. When rolling stat checks, 
adults add +1 to their Brains and Grit checks. Even if they aren’t always 
geniuses, they’ve seen enough of the world to know what it’s about and to 
not get shaken by much.

Selecting Strengths and Flaws
Once you’ve selected your trope and age, choose from the strengths and 
flaws associated with that character. Strengths are mechanical advantages 
that your character will have when playing the game. Flaws are not mechan-
ical, but they’ll help you develop your character’s personality. Choose two 
strengths and two flaws from those associated with your character’s trope. 
Or, if you want to draw from the larger list when deciding, you may. The 
full lists can be found in Appendix B: Strengths (page 59) and Appendix C: 
Flaws (page 61).

Once you have done this, give your character a first name — or a nickname 
that they go by. Hold off on a last name for now just in case you find out, as 
you’re introducing your characters, that they’re related to another character.

Including Characters Who Are Disabled or Neuroatypical
For some players, a traditionally “able-bodied” or “neurotypical” character 
might not fit their vision of their character. Instead, a player may want to play 
a character who is physically disabled or whose brain functions differently. As 
long as the players and the GM agree that you will be appropriately sensitive 
in playing the character, you can play any kind of character you want to play. 
When embracing these differences, keep in mind all of the likely consequenc-
es, both positive and negative. Fleshing out these traits will help you play 
your character better.

For Example: If Helene’s character has been using crutches to get 
around for most of her life, she won’t be quite as mobile, but her upper 
body might be accordingly stronger. If Raj is deaf, he may have picked 
up the ability to read lips. Also, think about what your character needs 
to do in response to their difference. If Hana is on the autism spectrum, 
she might need time after experiencing sensory overload before she 
can focus again, and she might have a process that helps her refocus 
more quickly.

Remember that the limitations that accompany these differences should 
consistently develop the role-playing experience. Some differences may 
present situations that require more complex problem solving — or may lead 

PAGE 12



to easier solutions to others. Remember, the GM and player should both 
carefully consider whether or not a player is ready to embrace this role-playing 
respectfully before agreeing — and you should make sure that everyone at 
the table is comfortable with the direction of the character.

Also, remember that things that would make a character disabled or 
neuroatypical are almost always on a spectrum, not a binary. To the casual 
observer, a character with autism, for example, might be indistinguishable 
from other members of the party — or that character may be non-verbal. If 
the character is hearing-impaired, they might be able to hear normally with 
hearing aids — or they may be completely deaf. It’s up to you where you put 
your character along any spectrum.

Two words of caution about these changes, though: First, make sure that 
you’re playing them in order to develop the character and the story, not for 
jokes or for novelty. Second, the GM should take care to not consistently 
exclude characters from events based on any agreed-upon changes.

As stated before, playing a character with limitations provides you with an 
opportunity to problem-solve or think about a situation that you may not have 
considered. How would Raj problem-solve in a scenario where he couldn’t 
see the lips of a person who is trying to communicate with him? How would 
Helene problem-solve if the only way of a situation is to run away? As in real 
life, differing abilities provide an opportunity for what could be considered 
non-traditional problem solving.

There may be a few moments when a character who is confined to a wheel-
chair might not be able to stay with the group. However, since the GM agreed 
to a player’s modifications to their character, they should take care not to 
make these moments frequent. And the GM should encourage players to feel 
good about the choices they made for their characters, especially if they 
made those choices to deepen the role-playing in the game.

PAGE 13



For Example: Priya chooses to create a character named Becky, who is 
on the autism spectrum. All of the players and the GM agree that they’re 
comfortable with Priya’s ability to play this character thoughtfully. Priya 
decides that Becky is a Scout who knows quite a lot about the great 
outdoors. She can identify all local vegetation by sight, knows which 
plants are edible and which are poisonous, knows when they flower, and 
can vividly describe all of these plants from memory. One of Becky’s fa-
vorite things is to be outside, away from lots of people and loud noises, 
both of which make her very uncomfortable. Sometimes, Becky gets 
overwhelmed if too much is going on around her, and as a consequence, 
she has learned every inch of the wilderness in and around Perkins. 
When Becky gets overstimulated, which often happens if she’s around 
too many people or if it gets too noisy, she starts to have trouble fo-
cusing. She needs to go to a quiet place and, if possible, spend time 
grounding herself by looking at plants and studying their details for a 
few minutes. That’s usually enough to help her feel like herself again.

Race, Ethnicity, Gender, and Sexuality
When creating your character, carefully consider their race, ethnicity, gender, 
and sexuality. These parts of your own identity are important to who you are 
— and they will be important to who your character is, too.

As a group, you will need to decide to what extent historical accuracy influ-
ences the treatment of different races, non-local ethnicities, and LGBTQIA 
people within your game. However, keep in mind that historical accuracy 
is not an excuse to be horrible. “But this is how people would have talked 
back then” doesn’t go far when you’ve established boundaries. If paranormal 
events can happen regularly in the town, then a mining town in the 1950s can 
be accepting of all people.

If handled appropriately, race, ethnicity, gender, and sexuality contribute 
quite meaningfully to your sense of the character and to narrative elements 
in the game. As long as your group agrees on the way these elements will be 
addressed and everyone is comfortable with these decisions — and as long 
as you are addressing these issues seriously and compassionately — you’ll be 
playing within the spirit of the game.

For Example: Dale creates Harper, a gender-queer character who is out 
to their closest friends and their family, but not to the town at large. As 
with Priya’s character Becky, all of the players and the GM agree that 
they’re comfortable with Dale’s ability to portray this character well. 
Based on the ground rules that they set — during which they agreed 
that there would be no slurs related to, or mistreatment of, LGBTQIA 
people — they agree that they aren’t going to make Harper’s gender 
identity something that non-player characters really take much note of. 
The players and the GM agree that it won’t be something that non-player 
characters address unless Harper brings it up.

PAGE 14



Introductions and Questions
Now that you have the basics of your character sketched out, think about 
how they’re related to the other characters at the table. We encourage you 
to make these decisions based on what the players tell you about their char-
acters. While it probably wouldn’t make much sense for every character in a 
five-player game to know every other character at the table well, each char-
acter should have at least one meaningful connection to another character. 
This will give your GM ways to bring your characters together in the narrative.

If you’re feeling stuck, some possible relationships include parents and 
children; siblings, step-siblings, and half-siblings; cousins; classmates, teach-
ers and students; best friends or worst enemies; neighbors; mentors and 
mentees; bosses and employees; and significant others or spouses.

This is a good time to start talking as your character would: “We know each 
other from back when we were in high school” rather than “My character 
dated their character for a few years.”

For Example: Oswald, Isabella, and Yoon are talking about how 
they know each other. Oswald is a teen with the Lone Weirdo trope, 
Isabella is a teen with the Wannabe trope, and Yoon is an adult with the 
Blue-Collar Worker trope. Isabella says that she and Oswald used to be 
close friends, since they’re neighbors, but when she started trying to 
be one of the cool kids a few years ago, she stopped hanging out with 
Oswald completely and quite suddenly. Oswald adds that since they 
started out as friends because they’re neighbors, he wasn’t all that hurt 
when they stopped hanging out. He just kind of shifted to hanging out 
with other people, and it was fine.

Yoon says that she knows Oswald because he’s friends with her son, 
Daniel, who’s also not that popular in school. She says that Oswald often 
sleeps over, so she knows him well enough to know what he likes on his 
pizza. Oswald adds that he feels comfortable talking to Yoon — more-
so than his parents sometimes, so he often confides in her. Yoon and 
Isabella agree that they don’t know each other well. Since it’s a small 
town, though, they know each other by sight. Everyone in their small 
town knows everyone else in their small town by sight.

Having broadly established how you know and don’t know each other, each 
player will answer questions about the other characters. You’ll do this one 
at a time, passing the list of questions around the table and collaborating to 
make the established relationships more complex and to hint at information 
about who you don’t know. This process will make the story of the game 
richer, even before the strange events start happening.

Depending on the length of time that you have for character creation, you 
could take one of three approaches to answering the questions: quick start, 
one sided, or complete.

PAGE 15



Quick Start Questions (2 minutes per player)
In the shortest version of setup, each player will answer one question about 
the character clockwise from them at the table. Before answering the ques-
tions, you should move so that you are sitting next to someone you have a 
close relationship with.

We do not recommend this setup — though if you’re trying to get a group up 
and running for a demo of the game, this can cut down on the time needed 
to start playing.

For a character you know:
• Decide whether your relationship with that character is mostly positive or

mostly negative.
• Roll a d20 and answer the corresponding question from the “Character

You Know - Positive” list on page 56 in Appendix A or the “Character You
Know - Negative” list on page 57 in Appendix A. (If the question doesn’t
fit the relationship that you have in mind or if the question you roll has
already been answered, you may answer a question above or below 
the one you rolled that hasn’t been answered yet or reroll.)

• Cross out that question. 

For a character you don’t know:
• Roll a d20 and answer the corresponding question from the “Character You

Don’t Know” list on page 58 in Appendix A. (If the question doesn’t fit the
concept of that character that you have in mind or if the question you 
roll has already been answered, you may answer a question above or 
below the one you rolled that hasn’t been answered yet or reroll.)

• Cross out that question. 

Once each player has answered a question about the person to their left, this 
part of the setup is complete.

For Example: Yoon, Isabella, and Oswald are answering the Quick Start 
Questions about each other. Oswald goes first and feels mostly positive 
about Yoon and rolls a 15: “What do you and this character have a 
mutual, weird love of?” He decides that they both really like fantasy novels. 
Yoon was reading The Hobbit when he was over at Daniel’s house a few 
years ago, and he borrowed it, read it, and couldn’t get enough fantasy 
novels. In Arkansas in the early ’80s, where the game takes place, there 
aren’t that many people who read those kinds of books.

Next, Yoon rolls for Isabella, whom she doesn’t know. She rolls a 6: “Why 
is this character’s family so important in town?” Yoon tells the group 
that Isabella’s mom is the sheriff in town and her dad owns the grocery 
store, so both of them are pillars of the community. They’re both good 
people, and they’re well respected in town.

PAGE 16



Finally, Isabella feels more negative than positive about Oswald and 
rolls a 20: “How did this character betray you the last time you confided 
in them?” Isabella and Oswald agree that he’s not the type to betray 
people easily, and Oswald pointed out earlier that he’d have to want 
something pretty badly to betray her — so Isabella decides that it was 
unintentional. A few years ago, Isabella told Oswald about how much 
pressure her parents were putting on her, and Oswald talked to Daniel 
about it. A few of the cool kids overheard, and they made fun of Isabella 
for even talking to Oswald.

One-Sided Questions (5 minutes per player)
In the mid-range version of the setup, each of you will answer a question 
about each other character. Seating arrangement is not important for this 
version of character questions.

We recommend this approach if you want to jump into the game, especially 
if you are running a one-off session of the game. 

For a character you know:
• If you feel mostly positive about them, roll a d20 and answer the corre-

sponding question from the “Character You Know - Positive” list on page
56 in Appendix A. (If the question doesn’t fit the relationship that you
have in mind or if the question you roll has already been answered, you
may answer a question above or below the one you rolled that hasn’t
been answered yet or reroll.)

• If you feel mostly negative about them, roll a d20 and answer the
corresponding question from the “Character You Know - Negative” list on
page 57 in Appendix A. (If the question doesn’t fit the relationship that
you have in mind or if the question you roll has already been answered,
you may answer a question above or below the one you rolled that 
hasn’t been answered yet or reroll.)

• Cross out that question.
• Now have them answer a question about you from the other list: Negative

if you answered a Positive question about them, or vice versa.
• Cross out that question. 

For a character you don’t know:
• Roll a d20 and answer the appropriate question from the “Character You

Don’t Know” list on page 58 in Appendix A. (If the question doesn’t fit the
concept of that character that you have in mind or if the question you roll
has already been answered, you may answer a question above or 
below the one you rolled that hasn’t been answered yet or reroll.)

• Cross out that question.
• Now have them answer a question about you from the same list.
• Cross out that question. 

Once each player has answered one question about each other character at 
the table, this part of the setup is complete.

PAGE 17



For Example: Yoon, Isabella, and Oswald are answering the One-Sided 
Questions about each other. Oswald goes first, since he knows both 
characters well. He starts with Isabella and a positive question and rolls 
a 5: “Why do you care about this character more than they care about 
you?” He decides that Isabella really seems to have forgotten about 
him, and he misses hanging out with her — but his few overtures to her 
have been misinterpreted, he thinks.

Isabella then rolls for a negative question about Oswald (since he rolled 
a positive one for her) and gets a 16: “What would losing this character 
mean to you?” Isabella says that she and Oswald don’t have much of 
a relationship anymore, but that Oswald reminds her of her past. Even 
though she wants to be a cool kid, every once in awhile she wants to go 
back to not caring about what other people think about her. Hanging 
out with Oswald would definitely be that.

Next, Oswald rolls for a positive question about Yoon and gets a 15: 
“What do you and this character have a mutual, weird love of?” He de-
cides that they both really, really like fantasy novels. Yoon was reading 
The Hobbit when he was over at Daniel’s house a few years ago, and he 
borrowed it, read it, and couldn’t get enough fantasy novels. In Arkan-
sas in the early ’80s, where the game takes place, there aren’t that many 
people who read those kinds of books.

Yoon then rolls a negative question for Oswald, and gets an 18: “You hurt 
this character years ago. Why can’t you apologize?” Yoon decides that, 
about a year ago, Yoon and Oswald’s father nearly had an affair. Though 
nothing more than a few kisses happened, it caused serious tension 
between Oswald’s parents. Yoon doesn’t know if Oswald’s mother 
knows or if Yoon just projected the concerns. She’s fairly sure that 
Oswald has no idea even though he has said that things have been 
weird between his parents. (This would be something that the player 
controlling Oswald would know but, in the game, Oswald would not.) 
Because he doesn’t know, she can’t apologize to him for what she 
assumes is her role in that tension.

Next, Yoon rolls for Isabella, whom she doesn’t know. She gets a 6: “Why 
is this character’s family so important in town?” Yoon tells the group 
that Isabella’s mom is the sheriff in town and her dad owns the grocery 
store, so both of them are pillars of the community. They’re both good 
people, and they’re well respected in town.

As a final question, Isabella rolls an 18 for her question about Yoon, 
whom she doesn’t know well: “What is this character doing to threaten 
their family’s reputation?” Since Yoon is a first-generation immigrant, 
her family doesn’t have a reputation in the town, so she rerolls and 

PAGE 18



gets a 14: “Who does this character have a very public feud with?” 
Isabella asks Yoon what she did before she moved to America, and Yoon 
tells her that she was training to be a pharmacist. Isabella decides that, 
some years ago, Mr. Talbot the local pharmacist was giving bad advice 
to people about what’s dangerous for children. Yoon heard about it 
and warned parents. Though she was right, Mr. Talbot said some unkind 
things about her, both about her level of training and her race. Mr. Talbot 
isn’t a particularly good person, Isabella says — and most people think 
he’s wrong on this one.

PAGE 19



Complete Questions (8 minutes per player)
In the long version of the setup, each player will answer two questions about 
each character they know at the table and one question about each character 
they do not know.

For multi-session plays of Kids on Bikes, this is the approach we recommend. 
It takes a while, but it helps you to develop rich, interesting relationships with 
each other, and it can lead to good directions for the story to take as you play. 
To foster this, while others are establishing their relationships, start thinking 
about how you could insert yourself into their dramas. For example, if Hector 
thinks Esme stole his bicycle even though she didn’t, perhaps you were the 
one who actually did. Or, if Hank cheated on Morris, perhaps you were the 
other man... or you know who was.

Remember, this is a big part of the world building of the game. As long as 
you’re within the bounds of what everyone wants from the game, there are 
no wrong answers here. Create the game you want to play by answering 
these questions!

For a character you know:
• Roll a d20 and answer the appropriate question from the “Character You

Know - Positive” list on page 56 in Appendix or the “Character You Know
- Negative” list on page 57 in Appendix A. (If the question doesn’t fit the
relationship you have in mind or if the question you roll has already been
answered, you may answer a question above or below the one you 
rolled that hasn’t been answered yet or reroll.)

• Cross out that question.
• Roll a d20 and answer the appropriate question from the “Character You

Know - Negatives” list in Appendix A. (Same caveats as above.)
• Cross out that question. 

For a character you don’t know:
• Roll a d20 and answer the corresponding question from the “Character You

Don’t Know” list on page 58 in Appendix A. (If the question doesn’t fit the
concept of that character that you have in mind or if the question you 
roll has already been answered, you may answer a question above or 
below the one you rolled that hasn’t been answered yet or reroll.)

• Cross out that question. 

Once you answer questions about all other characters, pass the sheets to 
your left, and that player repeats the process until every player has answered 
questions about all other characters.

For Example: Yoon, Isabella, and Oswald are answering the questions 
about each other. Oswald goes first, since he knows both characters 
well. He starts with Isabella and a positive question and rolls a 5: “Why 
do you care about this character more than they care about you?” He 
decides that Isabella really seems to have forgotten about him, and he

PAGE 20



misses hanging out with her — but his few overtures to her have been 
misinterpreted, he thinks. 

Next, he rolls for a negative question about her and gets a 3: “What 
could make you betray this character?” He decides that he’s feeling kind 
of disconnected from her, so it wouldn’t take much. The last time he 
tried to talk to her at school, she was really nasty to him, so if it would 
get him something he wanted, he’d betray her — but not in a major way.

Next, he rolls for a positive question about Yoon and gets a 15: “What do 
you and this character have a mutual, weird love of?” He decides that 
they both really, really like fantasy novels. Yoon was reading The Hobbit 
when he was over at Daniel’s house a few years ago, and he borrowed 
it, read it, and couldn’t get enough fantasy novels. In Arkansas in the 
early ’80s, where the game takes place, there aren’t that many people 
who read those kinds of books. Then he rolls a negative question 
about her and gets an 11: “What does this character do that makes you 
immediately lose your temper?” Oswald decides that doesn’t really 
fit their relationship and rerolls, getting a 15: “What insanity has this 
character shown warning signs of?” Oswald has seen Yoon be a little bit 
too fastidious and worries that she might be tending toward compul-
sive behavior — but he’s a teen and doesn’t necessarily know what all of 
the warning signs are.

Next, Yoon rolls for Isabella, whom she doesn’t know. She gets a 6: “Why 
is this character’s family so important in town?” Yoon tells the group 
that Isabella’s mom is the sheriff in town and her dad owns the grocery 
store, so both of them are pillars of the community. They’re both good 
people, and they’re well respected in town.

Yoon then rolls a positive question for Oswald, a 10: “What is this 
character sacrificing to protect you?” She decides that it isn’t protecting 
her, per se, but Oswald is always willing to talk to Yoon about what’s 
going on at the high school, something that her son isn’t usually willing 
to do. He’s giving up some of his time to let her know what’s going on.

Yoon then rolls a negative question for Oswald, and gets an 18: “You hurt 
this character years ago. Why can’t you apologize?” Yoon decides that, 
about a year ago, Yoon and Oswald’s father nearly had an affair. Though 
nothing more than a few kisses happened, it caused serious tension 
between Oswald’s parents. Yoon doesn’t know if Oswald’s mother 
knows or if Yoon just projected the concerns. She’s fairly sure that 
Oswald has no idea even though he has said that things have been 
weird between his parents. (This would be something that the player 
controlling Oswald would know but, in the game, Oswald would not.) 
Because he doesn’t know, she can’t apologize to him for what she 
assumes is her role in that tension.

PAGE 21



Lastly, Isabella rolls a positive question for Oswald, a 16: “What would 
losing this character mean to you?” Isabella says that she and Oswald 
don’t have much of a relationship anymore, but that Oswald reminds 
her of her past. Even though she wants to be a cool kid, every once in a 
while she wants to go back to not caring about what other people think 
about her. Hanging out with Oswald would definitely be that.

She then rolls a 20 for the negative question about him: “How did this 
character betray you the last time you confided in them?” Isabella and 
Oswald agree that he’s not the type to betray people easily, and Oswald 
pointed out earlier that he hadn’t betrayed her yet — so Isabella decides 
that it was unintentional. A few years ago, Isabella told Oswald about 
how much pressure her parents were putting on her, and Oswald talked 
to Daniel about it. A few of the cool kids overheard, and they made fun 
of Isabella for even talking to Oswald.

As a final question, Isabella rolls an 18 for her question about Yoon, 
whom she doesn’t know well: “What is this character doing to threaten 
their family’s reputation?” Since Yoon is a first-generation immigrant, 
her family doesn’t have a reputation in the town, so she rerolls and 
gets a 14: “Who does this character have a very public feud with?” 
Isabella asks Yoon what she did before she moved to America, and Yoon 
tells her that she was training to be a pharmacist. Isabella decides that, 
some years ago, Mr. Talbot the local pharmacist was giving bad advice 
to people about what’s dangerous for children. Yoon heard about it 
and warned parents. Though she was right, Mr. Talbot said some unkind 
things about her, both about her level of training and her race. Mr. Talbot 
isn’t a particularly good person, Isabella says — and most people think 
he’s wrong on this one.

Finishing Touches
Full Name: Now that you’ve fleshed out your character and your relationship 
with the other characters, you’ll add the finishing touches. If you were waiting 
to complete your name, do that now, keeping in mind that relatives proba-
bly have the same last name — but maybe not. Remember, try to keep your 
name in line with the tone that you and the other players have agreed to for 
the game.

Motivation: Write down something that strongly motivates you. It might not 
be the thing that drives all of your decisions, but it should certainly drive most 
of them — and especially the big decisions. It could be a specific motivation 
(e.g., “find my son no matter what it costs me” or “impress Tom so that he’ll 
go out with me”), it could be more general (e.g., “look cool” or “learn”), or it 
could have to do with concealing some information (e.g., “don’t let the others 
find out that my business is failing” or “don’t let my children learn that I killed 
their father”). If appropriate, share these with other players — but most likely, 
you’ll just be sharing this motivation with the GM.

PAGE 22



Typically, children will be motivated by their curiosity. Teens will often be 
motivated by social factors like fitting in or finding and maintaining a romantic 
relationship. Adults will be motivated by holding onto or protecting what 
they have, whether that’s a business or family. And all ages can be motivated 
by something or someone that they’ve lost.

Fears: Think about what it is that scares you. There will be some 
mechanical implications for this fear that will be addressed in “Planned 
Actions and Snap Decisions” on page 29. In terms of role-playing the fears, 
you will, of course, want to avoid your fears, and when faced with them, 
you’ll behave more irrationally. Ultimately, what you fear in the game is up 
to you.

Children usually fear things that, rationally, they shouldn’t fear — and 
don’t fear things that they ought to. They’re more likely to walk up to a 
stranger covered in blood to make sure they’re okay than they are to 
open up their closets in the middle of the night. Generally, children fear 
the unknown and what they can’t see. Children are also generally not 
ashamed of their fears; they’ll gladly declare them to friends and strangers 
alike.

Teens are all over the place. Some teens are still scared of the things 
that scared them as children, but they’ll tend to be very tight-lipped about 
these fears. No teen wants to admit that they’re still scared of the dark. 
Often, though, teens are more scared of social isolation, losing friends, or 
embar-rassing themselves. But sometimes, more mature teens — or ones 
whose lives have been rough — will have fears more like an adult’s.

Few adults have the fears that children have — and most of them 
aren’t worried about the kinds of social things that concern teens. Rather, 
they’re typically afraid of things being taken from them, whether that’s their 
families, their homes, or their livelihoods. Some adults also fear realistic 
things going wrong — and there’s nothing saying that an adult can’t be 
afraid of some-thing that most adults aren’t.

Backpack: The final finishing touch is indicating what you have in 
your backpack, literally and figuratively. What items are you never 
without? For children or teens, these might literally be in their backpack. 
For adults, these might be in the trunk of their car. Ultimately, though, 
they’re wherever would make the most sense for you.

Figuratively speaking, the backpack is also a good place to list 
advantages that you have over other people. While this doesn’t have to 
consider all of the ways in which you are privileged, it would be a good 
place to think about the more intangible resources you have at your 
disposal. For example, Azra’s backpack might indicate that her parents are 
exceptionally supportive and do everything they can to give her the 
resources to succeed at school. Adewale’s backpack, on the other hand, 
might indicate that his bad relation-ship with his parents has given him a 
strong sense of self-reliance and ability to do for himself. ThPeA GinEt 2a3ngible 
resources in your backpack won’t have a 



mechanical impact on the game, but they should give you places to turn if 
you need help in getting out of a problem — or create tension if that resource 
is suddenly not available.

Trope-Specific Questions: Each trope sheet in the Playbook has two questions 
about your character that should be answered at some point during the 
character creation process. So, if you haven’t yet answered them, make sure 
to do so now!

The answers to these questions do not need to be shared with the other 
players at the table — but they can be if you would like to. Certainly, though, 
your responses should be shared with the GM.

Now, you’re ready to start your adventure in Kids on Bikes!

Creating a Character from Scratch
Some players may wish to create their character entirely from scratch 
rather than beginning with a trope. Doing so takes longer, but it allows for 
truly unique characters that don’t fit into any specific mold. If this is a route 
you’re interested in, we encourage you to take it!

Using the blank character sheet in the Playbook (huntersbooks.com/
down-loads-kidsonbikes) or on page 75 of this rulebook, begin by 
assigning the dice that you’ll use for your stats. The best way to do this is 
to assign your d20 stat and d4 stat, then think about how those stats 
complement each other. Then, assign the other dice to the other stats.

Next, select your age: child, teen, or adult. Remember to give yourself the 
appropriate bonuses based on your age. Children get +1 to Charm and Flight 
and get Quick Healing for free. Teens get +1 to Brawn and Fight and get 
Rebellious for free. Adults get +1 to Brains and Grit and Skilled at ___ for 
free.

Then, select your other two strengths. Referring to the list in Appendix B 
on page 59, select two that fit with your vision for your character. Then, 
select your flaws. You may select any two from the list in Appendix C on 
page 61.

Finally, give your character a first name. From this point on, character 
creation continues as normal. Refer to the section titled “Introductions and 
Questions” on page 15.

Changes to Your Character Across Multiple Sessions
While it’s unlikely that characters will change much over the course of a 
single game, in the case of longer campaigns, there might be changes to a 
character based on what happens during play. A character who nearly 
drowns might develop a fear of water — just as a character who manages to 
overcome their fear of water in a critical moment might find that they 
aren’tP AaGs Ea 2fr4aid of it 



anymore. At the end of each session, the GM and players should discuss the 
ways in which the characters grew — or regressed — over the course of the 
game. Each time you play, you should learn more about your character. They 
should never be static. These changes will likely come in the form of new 
skills, new fears or flaws, or changed answers to the trope-specific questions.

Except in extreme cases, losses should be counterbalanced by gains. A char-
acter who conquered their fear of dogs at a critical moment might become 
boastful, which could cause tension with friends who previously appreciated 
their humility. The players and the GM should decide collaboratively what 
gains and losses occur at the end of one game or before the next one. Again, 
though, except in the strangest cases, there should always be a balance of 
what is lost and what is gained.

For Example: In the first game, Yoon, Isabella, and Oswald work together 
to go looking for Yoon’s son, Daniel, who disappeared before the game 
began. They were able to find him, but he’s currently in a coma, and 
doctors aren’t sure if he’ll recover. As a result of seeing the measures 
that Oswald and even Isabella went to in order to save her son, Yoon has 
gained the “Protective” strength when it comes to those two; however, 
because she found her son covered in some kind of strange webbing, 
she has added “Spiders” as a fear. Oswald and the GM agree that not 
much has changed for him. Isabella and the GM agree that she’s feeling 
closer to Oswald again and remembers why she valued him as a friend 
when they were younger — but there aren’t any mechanical changes for 
her, either.

PAGE 25






- Playing the Game -
The game will take the form of a story that you, the other players, and the GM 
tell together. The GM will help guide the action of the story and will make the 
“big picture” stuff happen, but you’ll have a lot of control over what you do 
and how you face the situations the GM throws in your way.

You’ll even have control over which parts you skip over. If your characters 
are going to have a pretty run-of-the-mill day at school, you don’t need to 
tell the story of all nine periods. Think of the game as the important scenes 
that will carry the narrative forward. Focus on the parts that promote action, 
excitement, and intrigue.

Stat Checks
While you’re playing, any time you do something that runs the risk of failure, 
the GM will set a numerical difficulty for the action. You will then roll the 
appropriate stat die and check the value of that die against the difficulty. If 
you roll the maximum value of the die and that isn’t enough to succeed at 
the check, your die will “explode” — meaning that you reroll the die and add 
the maximum value that you rolled the first time to the new roll. Your die may 
explode multiple times on a check — but once you succeed at that check, 
your die no longer explodes for that check.

Keep in mind that the most you can roll (without the luck of exploding a die) 
is 20, and that number is extraordinarily unlikely. However, that doesn’t mean 
that the difficulty can’t be higher than 20 in cases where a feat seems truly 
impossible for mere mortals.

Choosing a Stat for the Check
As in life, there are always multiple ways to solve a problem. If a character is 
being confronted by bullies, it may seem like they have to start swinging and 
hope it goes well (Fight) or turn heel and run and hope they’re faster than 
the bullies (Flight). But depending on who the character is, they might use 
other stats instead.

A character with high Charm might convince the bullies that he’ll show them 
a secret entrance into the movie theater if they don’t beat him up. A character 
with high Grit might tell them that she has taken worse beatings before 
breakfast and make it not seem worth their time. A character with high 
Brains might talk the bullies in circles until they let her go because they’re too 
confused to throw a punch. A character with high Brawn might physically 
intimidate their aggressors to get them to back down. There are always 
multiple ways you can solve your problems.

When you’re not sure what kind of check something will call for, you can 
always just describe what you’re doing and the GM will tell you what check to 
make. For things like deceit and lying, it’s probably going to be Charm.

PAGE 27



Difficulty Explanation & Example
A task at which only the most incredible could even possibly succeed 
— but if they succeed, it will be one of the most impressive things a 

20 character has ever done. This is a nearly guaranteed failure.

Examples: Lifting a car off of someone trapped under it; solving a 
nearly impossible math problem just by glancing at it.

A task for which success would be incredible and impressive. This, 
too, is a nearly guaranteed failure.

17-19 Examples: Talking a police officer out of arresting you when you 
have clearly broken the law and have no relationship with the 
officer; breaking a school record in track.

A task where success is extraordinary — but decidedly possible for 
characters who are truly skilled at it.

13-16
Examples: A lucky character finding the right item on the first try; 
someone trained in espionage withstanding police interrogation.

A task where success is impressive — but completely expected for 
characters skilled at it.

10-12
Examples: A strong person prying open a heavy, locked door; a 
computer whiz repairing a computer quickly under pressure.

A task where success is certain for characters who are very skilled at 
it — but not for those who aren’t.

7-9 Examples: Convincing the principal that it wasn’t you and your 
friends who started the cafeteria food fight; running a message 
from one end of a building to the other in a very short time.

A task where success is likely for all characters except those who 
aren’t skilled or who have a low stat in that field.

3-6
Examples: A lucky person drawing a non-face card from a deck; a 
character silently withstanding a verbal berating.

A task where success is guaranteed, except in extreme cases.
1-2 Examples: A character lifting a 10-pound weight over their head; a 

character reciting a multiplication table.

PAGE 28



But if you’re throwing around a lot of science-y words to convince the sheriff 
that the mine shaft where you’re actually hiding the half-goat, half-child 
creature is structurally unsound so he should stay away, that might be Brains. 
Or if you’re threatening your way into a secure area past a young, scared 
guard, that might be Brawn — or Fight if you’re describing what you’ll do to 
him if he doesn’t step aside. The bottom line is that the stats are here to help 
guide your storytelling and help you have fun. If you aren’t sure what to do, 
ask the table — and if they aren’t sure, go with your gut.

For Example: Ana has been cornered while she was snooping around 
an abandoned warehouse that she and her friends noticed a lot of the 
town’s adults going to. The three deranged members of a cult who 
cornered her seem intent on sacrificing her to the elder god they 
worship, and they’re all brandishing really big knives. Ana is a child 
with the Bully trope, so Fight is her best stat. However, the GM tells her 
that to fight her way out of this situation would be a very tough Fight 
check, a difficulty of 14. It’s not impossible, but Ana doesn’t feel good 
about her odds there. Since the cult members are completely deranged, 
intimidating them with Brawn (Ana’s d12 stat) is a difficulty of 22. 
Similarly, charming them would also be a 22, and since Charm is Ana’s d4 
stat, that’s unlikely to work. The cult members, though, are on the older 
side and thus a bit slower than children. The GM tells Ana that a Flight 
check would be a difficulty of 7. Ana decides that her chances are best if 
she goes with that — especially since she gets +1 to her Flight checks 
as a child and she has a few Adversity Tokens to spend if need be. 

Planned Actions and Snap Decisions
Although the GM always sets a numerical difficulty, there are two distinct 
kinds of stat checks: Planned Actions and Snap Decisions. Planned Actions 
are stat checks when you have time to think about the best course of action 
and, perhaps, work with your friends. If the characters are sitting at a kitchen 
table trying to break a coded message that someone left for them and have 
all night to do it, that’s definitely a Planned Action. If your character needs to 
climb up a wall to sneak into an abandoned factory and has the cover of night 
and no one in pursuit, that’s a Planned Action. In short, Planned Actions are 
when the conditions are relatively optimal to achieve something.

Snap Decisions, on the other hand, are choices that have to be made quickly 
under bad conditions — and are thus more chaotic and unpredictable. If your 
character is being chased through a cave, stat checks they make while fleeing 
in panic will definitely be Snap Decisions. If your character is under any kind 
of great pressure, that would likely be a Snap Decision, too.

Ultimately, it’s the GM’s call whether something is a Planned Action or a Snap 
Decision. Players, though, should feel free to try to convince the GM of how 
they can get a moment of calm to make a Planned Action in a setting that 
would seem to call for a Snap Decision.

PAGE 29



In order to make a check for a Planned Action, do the following steps:
• Once you decide to resolve a problem with a particular stat, the GM sets

a numerical difficulty. For example, if you are trying to crack a safe in the
privacy of your own home with the right tools, you might try to muscle
your way in (Brawn), crack the safe (Brains), or sweet talk a buddy of
yours to apply their safe-cracking skills (Charm).

• Either roll the appropriate die or, because you have time to think and
react calmly, take half the value of that stat’s die. For example, if you have
a d20 in Flight, you may choose to take a score of 10 for Planned Actions
involving Flight instead of risking a roll.

• If the value of the first die rolled is the maximum value of the die, but still
below the difficulty level, the roll “explodes.” Roll the same die again, adding 
both values together. This may be repeated as many times as you roll the
maximum, though you must stop as soon as you succeed at the check.

• After determining whether the roll explodes, add any age bonuses to the
roll. Age bonuses cannot cause a roll to explode.

• Children: +1 Charm, +1 Flight
• Teens: +1 Brawn, +1 Fight
• Adults: +1 Grit, +1 Brains

• You may also spend Adversity Tokens (earned from failed checks), with
each token adding +1 to the roll. As with age bonuses, Adversity Tokens
cannot cause a roll to explode.

• Other players may also spend Adversity Tokens to help you, with each
token adding +1 to the roll, though they must also narrate how their
actions are also helping your cause. This is at the GM’s discretion.

• If the total roll is greater than or equal to the difficulty level, you have
succeeded. You and the GM will narrate the success collaboratively.

• If not, you have failed. The GM will direct the narration with minimal
input from you (the greater the failure, the less input from you). The more
you miss by, the worse the failure. You also receive one Adversity Token,
which can be used on future rolls.



When things are dicier and you’re under more duress and stress, you’ll have 
to make a Snap Decision. In most ways, the process works as with Planned 
Actions but with the following changes:

• First, you cannot take half of the value of the appropriate die. You must roll
to see if you succeed since this is a rushed attempt that you cannot plan.

• Second, although you may spend Adversity Tokens to help yourself, other
players cannot spend Adversity Tokens to help you. There’s no time for
the kind of planning that collaboration requires.

• Third, the GM should make the consequences for failing a Snap Decision
less weighty than failing a Planned Action, though you may still gain an
Adversity Token. Narratively, when everything’s on the line, the tension
is already there, and you aren’t doing something stupid — you’re just in
a bad spot. (On the other hand, when you have time to plan and still fail,
that usually means you’ve decided to take a risk.)

For Example: Two characters have been captured by government forces
and are being aggressively interrogated in different cells to try to
get information out of them. Certainly, this is a Snap Decision — the
characters are under pressure, and the interrogators aren’t going to wait
patiently while the characters plan their responses. The GM might
decide that in order to withstand this level of interrogation, each
character will need a score of 12.

Rebecca, one of the characters, has a Grit stat of d20. She has seen
some rough things in her life, and nothing scares her. She rolls a 13,
succeeding. The GM and the player controlling Rebecca narrate
her success at holding up under questioning. She just barely held
up, though, so there won’t be any benefits beyond the fact that she
did succeed.

The other character, Tricia, has a Grit stat of d6. She rolls a 3, failing by
9 points — fairly badly, but not a complete disaster. Perhaps Tricia gives



up more information than the interrogator even knew she had. Perhaps 
she breaks quickly, giving them time to act on that information and 
prevent other characters from being able to do what they need to do, 
forcing them to scramble to come up with another way to get done 
what they need to get done. Perhaps she gives them more information 
than she should have, revealing the identity of her accomplices. 
Ultimately, this will be up to the GM with minimal input from the player.

Failing a Roll
Remember, in Kids on Bikes, failing a roll isn’t all bad. First and foremost, it 
gives you an Adversity Token, which you can use to succeed when you really 
need it — especially if you pool it with other Adversity Tokens — or to activate 
your character’s strengths. Adversity Tokens give you more options later on, 
so failing a few times at the beginning is actually a good thing.

Second, failure can and should push the narrative forward. A failed roll means 
that what the character wants to happen doesn’t happen — but that doesn’t 
mean that what happens is bad for the story. For example, if the characters 
try to hack a computer but aren’t able to, it might mean that they have to 
seek out an NPC to help them with it. That character might, in turn, inadver-
tently give them a clue that helps them puzzle out a mystery. Or, if a character 
tries to escape on foot from government forces pursuing her, she might be 
brought to a facility that holds the secret to the next part of the game.

So, while failures won’t be what your character wants, they should almost 
always feel good for the story — and should give the group more directions 
to take the narrative you’re building together.

For Example: Tricia rolls a 3 when trying to hold up against the interro-
gation, but she needed a 12. The result is bad — but not a disaster. As 
the agent starts applying verbal pressure to her, she cracks and tells 
the agent everything: where her friends are hiding and enough details 
about the strange animal she and her friends found in the forest to let 
the agent know that they’re indeed the children that the government 
agents are looking for. That agent quickly tells his supervisor, but in his 
rush to tell the others what’s happening, Tricia manages to not tell him 
that the animal seems to be able to teleport short distances. Thus, when 
the agents arrive at the house of Tricia’s friend, the strange animal is 
able to get to safety.

When deciding on the consequences of a stat check, the GM should consult 
the following guide:

PAGE 32



Roll - Target
(with applicable modifiers) Guidelines for Failure or Success

The character succeeds smoothly and easily. Likely, it 
looks like the character is just showing off, or that the task 

+10 or higher is done so readily that it happens without any effort at all. 
At the GM’s discretion (and certainly not necessarily), there 
could be some unexpected positive results from a success 
of this degree.
The character succeeds quite impressively. At the GM’s 

+5 to +9 discretion, the character might have some additional 
benefits beyond the success, but these will be slight — and 
only if important for pushing the game forward.
The character succeeds, but not impressively. Any benefits 

+1 to +4 the character gains above and beyond the success should 
be quite limited — if present at all.

The character succeeds, but just barely. Decidedly, 
0 nothing surprising happens — and the player and the GM 

should make this success as skin-of-the-teeth as possible.

The character fails, but not too badly. There might be 
-1 to -4 some very, very minor short-term consequences, but these 

won’t shift the story for more than a minute or two. The 
character has tried and almost succeeded.

The failure is bad, but not a disaster. There will be some 
short-term consequences that might lead to some 

-5 to -9 immediate difficulties — but nothing that the character 
can’t handle if they focus on them. The character has tried 
to do or has been forced to do something beyond their 
capabilities. And, not surprisingly, they’ve failed.

The failure is profound. There will be consequences for 
this failure, likely in keeping with what would be expected, 
but that doesn’t mean that those consequences won’t be 

-10 to -14 very bad. These consequences may strongly influence the 
course of the current play session. Generally, though, a 
character will only find themself failing this badly when 
they bite off more than they can probably chew — or 
because of the cruelty of the GM.

The failure is staggering and catastrophic. There will be 
both immediate and long-term consequences for this 
failure, above and beyond what might be expected. These 

-15 or lower consequences might lead to serious changes in the course 
of the long-term arc of the story — especially because 
the character should only find themselves failing this 
badly through total recklessness or because the GM has 
purposefully put them in a staggeringly difficult situation.

PAGE 33



Exploding Rolls and Narrative
When you roll the highest value of the die and thus roll again (when the roll 
“explodes”), the narrative should reflect that you have done something 
beyond what you could accomplish on your own. As the GM works with a player 
to narrate an “exploding” roll, the outcome should be influnced, in part, by 
external forces.

For Example: Take Tricia from the previous example, the character being 
interrogated. She has a Grit stat of d6 and needs a 12. Since her maximum 
possible Grit roll is a 6, she will need external forces to intercede for her to 
succeed. Instead of the 3 she rolled in the previous example, she rolled 
a 6 on her first roll. She rolls again, getting a 5, and adds that roll to the 
first result, making her total 11. She only fails by 1, meaning that there are 
very, very minor short-term consequences. Tricia holds out long enough 
to give her friends time to do what they need to do — but the govern-
ment agents show up just as they’re finishing. Tricia’s friends then have 
to flee quickly, making checks to ensure that they escape. Narratively, 
you could say that Tricia holds up as well as she possibly could, and there 
is something else that happens to prevent her from failing badly. Just as 
Tricia reaches her limit and is about to tell the agent what he wants to 
know, that agent gets called out of the room by a supervisor, buying Tri-
cia some time to collect herself.

Or perhaps it’s Penelope who is trying to run away from a group of 
government agents who are pursuing her on foot. She has a Flight stat of 
d8, and the GM sets the difficulty at 12: impressive, but certainly possible 
for someone skilled. She rolls an 8 on her first roll, then 6 on her next roll 
for a total of 14 — a success! Perhaps, as she’s running from the agents, a 
gate comes down, separating them. Perhaps as she’s running she knocks 
over and spills a container of motor oil, on which the pursuing agents 
then slip and fall, allowing her to escape. Whatever the outcome, it’s not 
that Penelope simply outruns them.

Combat Encounters
Combat in this game functions in the same way as other stat checks, though 
sometimes you will be rolling against another character to determine success 
or failure.

As with the other checks in the game, combat can be resolved in multiple 
ways. Suppose you are about to be physically attacked. You could stand firm 
and take the hit (Brawn check). You could attack first and hope to be a better 
fighter (Fight check). You could try to talk the attacker out of it before the 
punches start flying (very difficult Charm check). You could try to intimidate 
the attacker from carrying out the assault (Brawn check or very difficult Grit 
check). You could run (Flight check) or stand your ground and dodge the 
punches (difficult Flight check).

For combat between two player characters, the GM must confirm that both 
players are comfortable with their characters combating each other. Because 
of the possible consequences of in-game physical violence, if both players do 
not agree to it, the story will need to take a different direction.

PAGE 34



Physical Damage: Physical attacks are more direct combat, either a fistfight or, 
if things have gotten really bad, knives and bats.

Roll the attacker’s Fight against the defender’s Brawn (if they’re planning to 
stay and fight back) or Flight (if they’re planning to dodge or flee). Presumably, 
in a physical fight, both characters will be attacking each other, and assuming 
that’s the case, roll separate attack and defense for each character.

At the GM’s discretion, weapons like knives, baseball bats, and so forth might 
lead to successful hand-to-hand hit being treated like a projectile hit — or 
a slingshot or thrown object might be treated like a hand-to-hand hit. Still, 
whether the hit occurs or not should be calculated the same way.

Remember, there are no safe fights in this game. Any time physical conflict 
occurs, a character might die. Once players decide to attack each other, a 
misplaced blow could hit a temple or a throat. There are no “pulled punches” 
or “called shots.” Every fight could be fatal. That said, of course the GM should 
allow a playful (or even somewhat aggressive) shove or a nuggie — or even 
somewhat hostile wrestling — without risk of anything serious.

Projectile Damage: Most of the time in the game, projectiles will take the form 
of guns, which are terribly dangerous for all characters. But, children some-
times throw rocks or have bows and arrows, which could land just right and 
be bad — but most likely won’t be all that bad. Keep in mind, though, that all 
projectile weapons are potentially lethal.

When projectile combat occurs, roll the attacker’s Fight against the defender’s 
appropriate stat (likely Flight or Brawn, depending on whether the character 
is diving out of the way or taking the shot). If both characters are shooting or 
throwing at each other, roll separate attack and defense for each character. 
Remember, high differences between attack and defense with projectiles are 
much more dangerous than the same difference for physical combat.

Injuries & Death
During the course of the game, one or more of the characters will likely be 
injured. In this game, there are no hit points — but none of you are immortal. 
Far from it. Compared to the forces you will probably come into contact with, 
you’re exceptionally fragile. A well-aimed bullet from a government agent, the 
quick flick of a monster’s jaws, or a telekinetic character could end things in a 
moment.

In this game, violence should never be without consequence. Rather than 
trading blow after blow, stat rolls and applicable skill rolls should determine 
the outcome of a fight before it starts. Players and the GM should then narrate 
the outcome. The difference between the rolls (and applicable modifications) 
should determine the amount of damage that a player sustains (refer to chart 
below) and who gains narrative control over the encounter.

PAGE 35



Result of Rolls
 (with applicable modifiers) Narrative Result

defender’s roll Narrative Control: The defender narrates the outcome.
is greater than

or equal to Effect: The defender is uninjured; the projectiles miss 
attacker’s roll or the blows don’t land or hurt them enough to matter.

Narrative Control: The attacker explains how they 
attack, and the defender narrates what they do to 

attacker’s roll mitigate the harm to them.
is greater by

 1 to 3 Effect: The defender is hurt, but only temporarily; the 
bullet grazes them, but they’re okay; the punch stuns 
them, but they can shake it off.

Narrative Control: The attacker explains their attack, 
and the defender explains how they respond. The 
attacker then explains how this barely mitigates the 
harm.

attacker’s roll 
is greater by Effect: The defender is fairly hurt; the bullet hits them 

4 to 6 and they need medical attention soon to prevent it 
from causing permanent damage; they’re dazed and 
likely concussed, but they can keep going; their ribs are 
going to hurt for a few days and breathing might sting 
for a few hours.

Narrative Control: The attacker explains their at-
tack, and the defender explains how they respond. 
The attacker can alter any of these details as the 
defender explains them. Then, the attacker explains 

attacker’s roll how this response fails to prevent harm.
is greater by 

7 to 9 Effect: The defender is badly hurt; the bullet hits them 
dead on, and they’re losing a lot of blood and need 
professional care immediately or they’ll die; they’re 
unconscious and will be badly concussed when they 
wake up; the bone is broken.

Narrative Control: The attacker has full control over 
the narrative. They explain what the defender does 
in response to the attack — and how ineffective this 

attacker’s roll response is.
is greater by Effect: The defender is dead or quite nearly dead; 
10 or more the bullet hits them between the eyes and nothing 

can save them; they’re beaten so badly that only 
immediate medical attention can help — but there will 
be permanent effects.

PAGE 36



For Example: Elena and Jordan get into a physical fight over the car 
keys, since Elena thinks that they need to drive away and Jordan thinks 
that they need to stay and wait for their friends to get back. Both players 
agree that they’re comfortable with physical combat and that Jordan is 
going to attack Elena to try to take the keys from her. Jordan rolls their 
Fight (d12) and gets a 7. In response, Elena rolls her Brawn (d8) to see 
how bad the damage is to her. She rolls a 6, a difference of 1. Elena will 
be injured, but not badly. Since the fighting is mutual, Elena rolls her 
Fight (d10) and gets a 3. Jordan rolls their Brawn (d20), since they’re 
taking the hit, and gets a 9. Jordan won’t be injured, since their roll is 
greater than Elena’s attack roll.

At this point, they narrate what happens. Jordan describes that they 
try to sucker-punch Elena, but Elena says that she notices at the last 
second and moves her head to avoid taking too much of a hit. She then 
says that she swings back, but because Elena was startled, Jordan, the 
better fighter, is able to easily deflect the blow and land a few shots to 
Elena’s ribs, causing her to drop the key. While Elena is stunned, Jordan 
takes the key and puts it in their pocket. “We’re. Not. Going. Anywhere. 
At least not until they get back,” they say. “Clear?” Elena, not badly hurt 
at all but winded, coughs a few times and nods. 

PAGE 37



Spending Money
Since your game is likely going to take place in a town with a functioning 
monetary economy, you might, at some points, want to buy something to 
help you in your efforts.

It should be assumed that you have access to money. However, the degree of 
access you have depends on your age and in-game socio-economic status.

Children cannot have jobs and thus have almost no access to money beyond 
what is given to them. If they need to buy something, they almost certainly 
need to find someone to get it for them. Under rare circumstances, they 
might have saved enough to buy a small item. Remember, the exact amount 
depends on the era in which you’re playing and whether or not you have the 
Wealthy strength. It also is likely to depend on the age of the child. A six-
year-old won’t have the same access to money that an eleven-year-old will.

Teens have limited access to money, but they can afford necessities for a few 
days, depending on their socio-economic status. Teens will not be able to buy 
a car, but they could certainly have enough saved to get a hotel room for a 
few nights — though that’d likely be about it. They might, though, be able to 
convince their parents to give them some money.

Adults have much more access to money than teens and can, within reason, 
buy what they want to buy. If they needed to buy a car in a pinch, they most 
likely could — though that might represent a significant sacrifice for them. In 
terms of money for adults, their group will have the most variance, which will 
be based on their job. But remember, in order to be wealthy, even an adult 
with a traditionally high-paying job must take the Wealthy strength.

Playing Multiple Sessions
While Kids on Bikes can be played as a single-session game, you and the 
other players might decide that you want to keep playing. If you do, the GM 
will have more time to plan the story and can throw some more orchestrated 
surprises your way.

If you have decided to play multiple sessions, the GM might decide to end 
the session’s events on a cliffhanger (perhaps literally) so that you can pick 
up right where you left — or fell — off. That’s great, and will keep you anxious 
about the resolution from one session to the next! If you’re taking this 
approach, ignore the rest of this section.

But if at the end of your session you’ve reached a point where there will be 
some in-game time between the end of this session and the start of the next, 
you should work as a group to create a “coda” for the story. In classical music, 
a coda is the final portion of the work, one that brings the work to a close. 
Here, you’ll do the same by telling everyone else how the events in the game 
thus far affect you in the weeks following the events. What changes for you? 
Are you suddenly more confident and willing to walk back into middle school 
with your head held high? Does a rift between you and the other characters 

PAGE 38



manifest in the form of you sitting by your locker to eat lunch instead of with 
them? Are your children happier to have dinner all together now? Do you 
finally have the courage to leave him and not come back?

After developing your story, if you are planning to play multiple sessions, 
you and the GM should agree upon changes to the character as a result of 
the session (or sessions). There isn’t a “leveling up” mechanic in this game, 
but no interesting character is static over a series of sessions. Think carefully 
about what changes about you as a result of the session, as it relates to the 
mechanics of the game. Did you face a big fear that won’t be as much of a 
problem for you anymore? Or did something almost kill you that will now be 
a fear in the future? Does it make sense to keep the strengths that you had 
at the start, or did you learn a new trick? And, of course, if you sustained any 
serious injuries, how will those affect you going forward?

After discussing with the GM, if you both agree, make the changes to your 
character’s sheet.

Remember, if it makes narrative sense, gaining a strength does not mean 
losing another — but by the same token, losing a strength doesn’t mean 
gaining another, either. You and the GM should take care to make sure that 
you aren’t becoming too weak or too strong to face what comes next. Fear 
and tension can be fun, but hopelessness usually isn’t. So, be sure to keep 
your strengths, flaws, and fears in the right range — which will be different for 
each player and each game.

PAGE 39






- Powered Characters -
Players cannot create a character with powers to play throughout the 
campaign. But, early in the first session, the GM will introduce a powered 
character that will then be co-controlled by all of the players.

Introducing & Playing Powered Characters
When the powered character is first introduced, the GM will give each player 
a few deliberately selected traits for that character. These traits, called 
aspects, should be written on separate notecards. These aspects will provide 
information that helps players play the powered character, such as their 
personality traits, patterns in their behaviors, and, of course, their powers. We 
recommend two per player to start, but the GM can adapt that as they see fit. 

The GM also establishes how much psychic energy the powered character 
has, represented by Psychic Energy Tokens (PE Tokens), and puts that many 
PE Tokens in the middle of the table. We suggest starting with 7.

When situations come up that relate to the aspects in front of a player, they’ll 
be in charge of the narration. In any other situations, players will share control 
of that character. As with the rest of the game, players share control of the 
narrative. If the GM gives you an aspect that you think you would have a 
difficult time incorporating, you can ask the GM to give that aspect to 
another player.

When an aspect becomes relevant, turn the card featuring that aspect 
sideways. This action helps to focus the table on who will be controlling the 
powered character. Any player may activate any aspect at the table, even 
one in front of another player, but the player with that aspect in front of 
them should be in charge of the narration related to that aspect. Thus, when 
another player activates an aspect in front of another player, they’re handing 
narrative control over to that player.

For Example: Sofia thinks that it would be a particularly good time for 
the powered character to use his telekinesis, but Gyasi controls that 
aspect. Sofia reaches over and turns the notecard indicating that 
power sideways, thus indicating that Gyasi has narrative control of the 
powered character and making a suggestion of what to do with that 
control. (If Gyasi disagrees, he could narrate without using the powered 
character’s telekinesis. Ultimately, it is up to the player controlling each 
aspect to determine how and when it is used.)

For a table of suggestions for the powered characters’ aspects, see 
Appendix D on page 62. You may, of course, create your own as you see fit 
— and the GM should remember that the initial narrative path of the story 
should guide what powered character the players meet! When the players 
do meet them, the GM should also establish d4 and d20 stats for the 
powered character. The other four stats will be filled in by players as they 
discover who the powered character is and what they can do.

PAGE 41



Characters may flesh out the powered character as they see fit, adding 
desires, fears, and motivations as they go. Once a player introduces a new 
aspect to the powered character, players should go along with it unless there 
are issues with established behaviors or cards that players have. It also might 
be a good idea to create a notecard for that aspect, especially if you are 
planning to play multiple sessions. Remember, though: the only way new 
psychic powers can be added is through intervention of the GM. Players 
cannot, under any circumstances, give the powered character new powers.

For Example: The GM narrates a young boy, covered in blood, walking 
into a police station where the characters are. The GM then hands two 
cards to each player. To Andrea, the GM gives the aspects “loves kittens” 
and “scared of bright lights.” To Doug, she gives the aspects “lashes out 
when touched” and “communicates only through grunts and gestures.” 
To Jamie, she gives “this character mimics Andrea’s behavior.” and “able 
to move objects with his mind.” To Jon, she gives “loves a member of 
the group platonically” and “fiercely loyal to the group.” Finally, the GM 
puts 8 PE Tokens in the middle of the table. Jon, Jamie, Doug, and 
Andrea will now narrate what the powered character does throughout 
the game in accord with what is on the cards they know about — and 
with correction from other players and the GM whenever necessary.

When playing the powered character, there should ideally be roughly equal 
input from each player and the GM. As a player, you should have enough 
information to make decisions about what the powered character does. If 
you don’t, ask the GM for more guidance — and remember that Kids on Bikes 
is a game where players have strong input over the direction of the narrative 
of the game. As long as you’re within the bounds of what other players want 
out of the game, your decisions are right!

As a GM, your control over the powered character should be used to drive the 
narrative toward exciting encounters and stressful situations. If players are 
unsure what to do or seem stuck, the GM could certainly have the powered 
character figure something out. If the characters need to be pushed 
toward the revelation of a secret that only the GM knows, the powered 
character could be very useful in this respect, too. Remember, though, that 
players’ input is important in the game — and if their ideas conflict with the 
plan, try to adapt.

Options for the Powered Character
Alternatively, for the element of surprise, the GM could wait to give out some 
aspects, especially the powered character’s powers, until they’re relevant. 
For example, the young boy covered in blood walks into the police station. 
While the characters are getting to know the powered character, they might 
not have access to the aspects dealing with his psychic powers. When the 
need to use them arises, though, the GM could hand out the notecards.

The GM should also feel free to give out additional aspects as the game 
goes on. Perhaps it is, as above, that the players discover a new aspect of 

PAGE 42



the powered character’s personality. But this could also be to get a player 
more involved with the control of the character. For example, if a player isn’t 
participating as much with narrating the powered character, the GM could 
give that player a new aspect card to give them more to do with the 
character, especially if that aspect is immediately relevant. Changes on the 
fly are a big part of what this game is all about, so as a player, expect to have 
those thrown at you!

Using the Character’s Powers
Using powers always has consequences. When using powers, the GM will 
establish a numerical difficulty for the action being attempted. This number 
should take into account how practiced the powered character is with using 
their psychic powers in this way and how significant an expenditure of 
psychic energy it would represent. Then, if the player choosing to take that 
action with the powered character wishes to still take that action, the 
powered character immediately spends one psychic energy (represented 
and tracked by PE Tokens) and the player rolls 2d4.

Subtract the roll on the dice from the GM-established difficulty value. If the 
result is zero or negative, the powered character suffers a very minor physical 
result (e.g., a very brief nosebleed, a muscle twitch, a momentary but painful 
headache). If, however, the result is one or greater, the player taking the 
action has two options: either the attempt fails or the player chooses to 
spend more PE Tokens to increase the roll, spending one PE Token for each 
+1 to the roll. As soon as the roll plus the PE Tokens spend is equal to the
difficulty value, the result becomes a success.

For Example: Jamie is controlling the powered character’s telekinesis. 
She wants to use his powers to move a set of keys off a desk and over 
to Jamie’s hands so that she can let herself out of a pair of handcuffs. 
The GM tells Jamie that the precision required for this task sets the 
difficulty at 5. Jamie spends one of the powered character’s PE Tokens 
and rolls 2d4, getting 4. She then has to decide whether the attempt 
fails (in which case the GM narrates the failure) or whether she wants to 
spend an additional PE Token (in which case she narrates the success).

If completing such an action reduces the powered character to zero or fewer 
PE Tokens (which could happen with the GM’s permission), very bad things 
happen to the character. Whatever their standard physical reaction to using 
powers is will be far worse (e.g., a violent, full-body seizure instead of a 
muscle twitch) and they will lapse into unconsciousness — or even die if they 
drop too far into negatives. The exact effects are up to the GM.

Replenishing Mental Energy
In order to replenish their mental energy, the powered character needs to 
rest, eat, or take other appropriate action. A full night’s rest should restore 
the character to full mental energy — unless they have dipped below zero. In 
that case, recovery should take more time, though the exact duration is up to 
the GM’s discretion.

PAGE 43



Also, there should be one or two things that can help the character recover 
without sleeping — or recover more quickly if they’ve dipped into negative 
psychic energy. Do they have a particular sweet tooth? Do foods that are 
high in iron help them more than other foods? Maybe it’s meditation or direct 
sunlight helps them to recover. In all situations, the powered character should 
be subtly drawn to these things to give players clues — but the GM should 
feel free to throw in some red herrings.

Powered Character Checkpoints
Just as your personal character develops, your powered character should 
develop in some way, too. And just as the individually controlled characters 
will develop through reaching goals that they’ve set for themselves and 
through the natural and unpredictable turns of the story, the same will 
happen for the powered character.

In terms of the natural changes to the character over the course of the story, 
a character the powered character fears standing up for them is likely to 
change how they feel about him. One of the characters betraying the powered 
character to save herself is likely to make the powered character mistrust the 
traitor. The GM should modify the character’s details as appropriate.

PAGE 44



In terms of major changes to the powered character, though, the GM should 
consider, when creating the character what the “Character Checkpoints” will 
be for the powered character. Character Checkpoints should be elements 
that are both narratively and mechanically significant, places where some-
thing triggers a meaningful change in the character. When determining these 
Checkpoints, think about how the causal event would influence the character.

For Example: If the powered character was given their powers in a lab, 
returning to that lab might be a Character Checkpoint. It could be that 
the character discovers a way to augment their powers — either gaining 
a new power or increasing the number of dice they roll in checks. 
Perhaps they discover an important object or undergo a process similar 
to what they underwent to gain their powers. It could also be that, if the 
powered character had false memories, seeing the lab might reveal the 
old, actual ones to the character — which could trigger new powers or 
give the powered character a clearer understanding of what the next 
step in their journey is.

The GM should use these Checkpoints as some of the “big” moments of the 
game, moments when things change — but not necessarily for the better. 
Such Checkpoints should be used to complicate the players’ lives. Perhaps 
they meet a key villain who is now aware of them, too. Perhaps the powered 
character becomes less stable — maybe rolling a d10 instead of 2d4 when 
making checks.

What’s important is that players, even though they’ll be pushed toward these 
Character Checkpoints, feel a sense of dread as they approach these pivotal 
moments. The clues that lead players to these moments will give their 
experience a structure, so that they aren’t just fumbling around in the 
world they helped to create — but they’ll also create the edge-of-your-seat, 
anything-could-happen moments that make games memorable.

PAGE 45






- Information for the GM -
So, you’ve agreed to run the game for your friends. Thank you for facilitating 
their experience with the game! In this section, you’ll find some advice for 
how to best make that happen. If you’re an experienced GM, a lot of this 
section will cover material that you’ve probably heard of or thought through 
before. If you’re reading a section that seems like something you already 
know, feel free to skip to the next one. We won’t know — and if we did, we 
wouldn’t be hurt.

Player Safety
A key part of any role-playing experience is pulling players out of their 
comfort zones and, often, forcing them to make difficult decisions for their 
character. Will Arthur choose to disobey his parents and dive into the river, 
or will he let the raft that they’d tied off to a rock float away when it comes 
loose? Will Alex lie to their children or let them know just how much danger 
they’re all really in? However, as discussed in the “Setting Boundaries” 
section, you don’t want to address any issue that players have agreed are out 
of bounds. So where’s the line between pushing players and overstepping the 
agreed-upon boundaries?

Our suggestion is to make sure that you’re steering quite clear of the topics 
players have agreed to avoid. If players feel strongly enough about them to 
mention them at the start, it might make them nervous to even approach 
them — but that’s something that you and the group should discuss at the 
start. However, if that conversation doesn’t happen at the beginning of the 
game, feel free to pause the action.

Also, even if you’re using a method to ensure that players have the chance to 
stop anything they’re finding unpleasant, don’t hesitate to take a step out of 
the game to make sure that everyone is still okay with things. When players 
get caught up in the story, they can sometimes roll right into things people 
find troubling, even if those things weren’t covered in the discussion of those 
boundaries. If it seems like this might be happening, it’s a good idea to pause, 
check in with everyone, and either continue or adjust as needed.

For example, some conflict between characters will help to drive the story 
and create tension. However, if there is increasing tension at the table and 
players — not just characters — seem to be getting frustrated with each other, 
it’s a good idea to make sure everyone’s still enjoying themselves.

Also, give some thought to the safety methods your group is using. We’ve 
recommended a slightly modified version of John Stavropoulos’s x-card for 
Kids on Bikes, but there are many others that can work well. Here are just two 
examples we like, but use what works best for your players:

• Brie Sheldon’s Script Change Tool — When something players want to
avoid is occurring, they say “rewind,” “pause,” or “fast forward.” “Rewind”
means that a player is telling the group they want to go back a bit and

PAGE 47



head in a different direction to avoid elements they don’t want in the 
game. “Pause” means that a player needs a break but that the game may 
continue in the same direction it was going. “Fast forward” means that 
a player wants to skip over a part of the game — that they’re okay with 
the event happening in the world of the game, but they’re not okay in 
hearing it described or playing it out. For more information, visit 
http://www.briecs.com/p/script-change-rpg-tool.html

• Ron Edwards’s Lines & Veils — Rather than establishing firm “off-limits”
topics at the start of play, players can address issues as they come up,
drawing a “line” (a topic that a player does not want to address in the
game) or drawing a “veil” (a topic that can occur in a game so long as it
is “off camera” (similar to the fast forward described above). This is best
used with players who are comfortable enough with each other and with
role-playing to pause the game and address issues as they arise. It comes
from Edwards’s 2003 game, Sex & Sorcery.

We’re sure there are numerous other approaches to making sure that every-
one at the table feels safe and enjoys their experience. We encourage you to 
use whatever techniques work best for you — and adapt them as necessary.

PAGE 48



Starting to Craft the Story
In Kids on Bikes, the setup at the start of the game, where players create 
the town and establish the connections between each character, is vital to 
helping them craft a good story later. Let’s talk about the elements to pay 
attention to during the setup in order to have more hooks for the adventure 
and to get the inspiration you need for the upcoming game. Here are some 
questions to think about (and possibly take notes about) during the setup: 

• Notable organizations: What are these organizations hiding? Is there
something sinister about one of these organizations — or is one of them
holding back a great evil?

• Notable landmarks: Is there more than meets the eye to one of these
landmarks? What happened in the past that made this place such a nexus
of attention — and how does it factor into the powered character’s back-
story? Or how is the evil entity the characters will face trying to use this
landmark for their own nefarious ends?

• Rumors about the town: Which rumor is true? Which rumor is completely
false? Which rumor is only part of a much more complex story? Probably
most importantly, which rumor gets all of the players excited? Is there
one where other players almost involuntarily chime in to add to it — or
say, “Oooh! That’s good!” If so, that’s the rumor to lean into, but in some
unexpected way.

• Strengths and tropes: What are the characters going to generally
be good at based on their strengths and tropes, either as a group or
individually? For the things that multiple members of the group will be
good at, those are a good way for the group to form at the start of the
game, giving them all something that they can be successful at together.
For things that only one member of the group will be good at, later in the
game, once the characters have learned to rely on each other more, this
can be a good opportunity for specific characters to shine, especially if
they haven’t had the chance to yet or if their player has been taking more
of a passive role in the game.

• Relationship questions: Especially with the negative questions about how
characters are connected, what are some “pressure points” you could
press for the group to create tension? For questions about characters
who don’t know each other, what truth is there to what they’ve heard —
and what isn’t true at all?

For Example: Think back to the sample responses to questions given on
pages 6-7. Gautier, the GM for that game, might have jotted down the
following questions about the game, listing possible points of tension
and story elements as Carlos, Yasmin, and Emily collaboratively created
the town:

• Mining: Do they unearth something while mining? What caused the
mining accident? Will it happen again? Will the characters need to
explore that collapsed mine for some reason? When they found the
bodies, were there really bite marks? Did one of the men really do
that to the others? Where are the other two bodies?

PAGE 49



• Candles: Why does the town want to drive out the darkness? Are
they afraid of something?

• Economy: As characters get hard up for money, what starts to influ-
ence them?

• Elks: Why so popular? “Most of the adult men” is an interesting
amount. What keeps some of the men out of the Elks? Is it really a
front? Or is it actually the opposite, that they’re actually a powerful
but secret force for good in the town?

• Diving cliff: Good place for a strong moment of tension? What time
of year are we going to be playing in?

• Worthy/Yates: Are they actually an item? What if they’re meeting
frequently to cook up some evil — or to share notes on some evil
that they’re keeping an eye on? Does that have anything to do with
the mining accident?

In thinking over his notes, Gautier thinks that making the rumor about 
only finding ten of the twelve miners the central part of the first story 
could be really cool. He noticed that there wasn’t much reaction from 
the other players when Carlos mentioned that the Elks might be a front, 
so that doesn’t seem to grab the players the way the mine did. But, 
he thinks that he’ll see if players start bringing it up in the game. If so, 
that might be something to lean into. Other than that, he sees the rela-
tionship between the two principals as something that might be worth 
pursuing — but he decides that taking it in a very different direction 
than the players might be expecting could be cool. He only has a rough 
idea: there are students in the schools who need to be kept under sur-
veillance, which could be an interesting twist. If the characters follow 
them, he decides that he’ll let the characters see them meeting at the 
local diner and talking, but not in the way lovers might. That, he thinks, 
might be enough to interest them in sneaking in to find out more. He’ll 
see where things go, but he figures having two hooks is a good start.

As you look for ways to draw ideas out of the character creation, think 
back to the relationships established between Oswald, Isabella, and 
Yoon from pages 20-22. For the sake of this example, we’ll say they did 
the Complete Questions, where each character answers two questions 
about each other character they know and one question about each 
character they don’t know.

For each pairing, Maya, the GM, takes notes about points of tension in 
the relationship — or about ways to draw the characters together:

• Oswald/Yoon: Oswald is comfortable talking to Yoon, the mother of
his best friend (if something happened to Daniel, they’d likely work
together to fix it), similar love of fantasy novels, deep secret about
the near affair between Yoon and Oswald’s dad (Oswald doesn’t know.
Does Oswald’s mom? Probably.)

• Oswald/Isabella: Isabella as a Wannabe and Oswald as a Loner Weirdo
means that she wouldn’t want to be seen with him, old friends but
not anymore, sweet that Oswald reminds Isabella of who she was, she

PAGE 50



might be willing to help if Oswald needed her (especially if no one else 
would ever find out), Oswald seems like he would definitely be willing 
to help her if she asked

• Yoon/Isabella: Yoon as a Blue-Collar Worker and Isabella as a Wannabe
who doesn’t know her means there’s not much here — Oswald seems
to be the nexus, Isabella’s mom being the sheriff might be a way to
connect the two (if Yoon goes to Isabella’s house to find her mom off
hours, Isabella might overhear — good if something happens to Daniel)

As you start to think about these possible hooks and points of tension, you’ll 
start to see directions to take the story. That’s good! You don’t need to narrow 
it down to just one, and you can dangle a few different hints and see which 
direction the players take. With the shared narrative control, it’s important 
to let the players also have a strong role in the direction that the story takes. 
So if you’re feeling stuck in where to take the story to make it interesting for 
players, ask your players questions — even very open-ended ones, like, “Who 
are you surprised to find in the cave with you?” or “When the door creaks 
open, what do you find on the other side?” You don’t have to do all the work 
setting up the story!

Narrative Control
Depending on how many role-playing games you’ve enjoyed over the years, 
you might be used to different approaches for the GM (or DM, MC, or any 
number of other titles). In traditional role-playing games like Dungeons & 
Dragons, the GM directs a lot of the action and is almost always responsible 
for telling players what happens in response to their actions. As a result, 
with these approaches, each player is responsible for their own character’s 
actions, but not for the world around them. For example, “You reach into 
the dark portal that just opened on the wall and your hand feels warm sud-
denly. Although you want to withdraw your hand, you cannot. Something 
is holding you there, something that feels like a strong, skeletal hand.” 

Many contemporary role-playing games take a different approach, letting 
players tell more of the story, with the GM as more of a facilitator. Rather than 
telling players what happens, the GM will often ask players what happens, 
relying on them to co-create the world they’re interacting with. As such, each 
player is responsible for their own character’s actions and some aspects of 

PAGE 51



the world around them. For example, “As you reach your hand through the 
dark portal that just opened on the wall, what do you feel that surprises you 
— and why don’t you pull your hand out of the portal when you feel it?”

Typically, Kids on Bikes takes this approach. Sure, there will be times when 
you present something to the table that’s entirely from your imagination, 
but whenever possible, try to encourage the players to create the story with 
you, not just react to what’s going on around them. Continuing the example 
above, there might be a very good reason that there has to be a skeletal hand 
on the other side of the portal — and if there is, make sure that’s part of the 
story. But for the incidentals, leave those up to the players. Heck, even for the 
big stuff, sometimes, players should get to decide what happens.

Another way in Kids on Bikes that narrative control is removed from the GM 
and players is through the dice rolls. When a character fails a stat check, both 
you and your players are bound in your decisions by an unalterable truth: that 
character failed the stat check.

As the GM, you can take some small liberties with the harshness of the penal-
ties|for failure, and that character’s player can spend Adversity Tokens to the 
same end — but unless the player has enough Adversity Tokens to get over the 
needed value, the character has failed. Go with it. Take the story in unexpected 
directions when the most intimidating character at the table brandishes a 
gun at a small child and the child laughs at them. Think about why that is — 
and ask the player to explain. Maybe they decide that they try to smoothly 
pull the gun from its holster menacingly but it gets stuck. Maybe the child 
is distracted by the large stain on the character’s pants from when they fell 
earlier. Players will surprise you with their creativity within these bounds.

All of this is especially true when it comes to the powered character. Each 
player will be controlling part of that character’s actions and reactions, and 
you’ll know things about the powered character that they don’t. Even if 
something doesn’t fit with your idea of the powered character, try to adapt 
to the changes players make to them. If you’d planned on having them hate 
chocolate but a player declares that they stuff an entire bar into their mouth 
and smile, ask yourself if that detail matters or if they could just as easily hate 
peanut butter.

To boil this section down to two main, simplified ideas: roll with the punches, 
and, as the GM, let your players throw some of those punches, too.

That said, some players really prefer a game where they only control their 
own character. As long as everyone agrees that’s how the players want to 
play the game, there’s nothing wrong with that! You could even control the 
powered character if that’s what all of the players want for their experience 
from the game.

PAGE 52



Tone and Pace
One of the most difficult elements of GMing is keeping consistency for the 
players without the game getting boring. There are two key elements that 
can be particularly difficult: tone and pace.

With respect to tone, players will discuss at the beginning of the game whether 
they want a serious game, a silly one, or something in the middle. However, 
especially in campaign-style games, having only serious, morose charac-
ters glumly struggling against the forces of evil can get old. So too can a 
cartoonish hodge-podge of characters absurdly gallivanting through unreal-
istic scenario after unrealistic scenario. Figuring out what the right balance is 
part of the art of GMing.

The same is true of the pace of the game. The world you’re helping to create 
will feel disjointed if it throws the players right into a conflict with a powered 
monster without any preamble every time they play. Spending twenty hours 
establishing characters and their relationships before they get even a hint as 
to any central conflict, too, will get boring. Again, variety is vital.

As a result, GMing often relies heavily on your ability to read the group and 
adjust the tone of the game. There are, however, a few suggestions that have 
generally worked for us in the past:

• Don’t feel like you have to role-play everything that happens in the world
of the game. If the characters are driving for two hours to a neighboring
town, you don’t need to have the characters narrate their conversation for
those two hours. If the characters are going their separate ways, you can
have them give quick snapshots of what they did during that time. Don’t
feel like every moment has to be accounted for.

• Encourage players to tell you whether they want more or less of some-
thing, both before games and even during sessions. If the group is getting
bored with the way the current game is going, work to give them more
of what they want.

• Even more, encourage players to actively push the narrative toward what
they want. In Kids on Bikes, players have control over more than just their
characters’ reactions, so if they want some action to happen, let them
make that action happen.

• If players seem to want different things, feel free to pause the game,
discuss what’s happening on a meta level, and then step back into the
game. For example, if Riku is really enjoying the slower-paced role-playing
but Yasmin wants some action, discuss this. Is there a way for both of
them to get what they want — or can one of them agree to hold off on
what they want in exchange for more of that later on? Trust your players’
maturity.

• After particularly intense sessions (or parts of sessions), try to give the
players a bit of a break. You’ve probably noticed in film that after big
action scenes there’s usually a bit of a lull — especially if a character has
suffered a big loss. Not only does this give the audience a break from
frenetic action, but it also gives them time to process what the loss means
going forward. Especially in a game where you want your players to take

PAGE 53



ownership of the direction of the story, you need to give them time to 
think about what big events will mean going forward. However, you also 
don’t want to jump from a loss in the party to screwball comedy. Again, a 
big part of GMing is reading the room.

• You’re a player in the game, too. If you’re enjoying the pace and the tone,
chances are the group is, too. When in doubt, just ask the other players if
they are enjoying themselves as much as you are.

Failing a Stat Check
One of the key differences between Kids on Bikes and role-playing games 
that focus on combat is that, as in all stories, failure isn’t necessarily bad. 
While it certainly means that the thing the character was trying to do doesn’t 
happen, it doesn’t mean that players have failed.

Think back to the source material that you’ve enjoyed and that you’re probably 
drawing inspiration from to run the game. In those stories, the characters 
don’t always succeed at what they’re trying to do right off the bat. If they 
did, it wouldn’t be a very interesting story. So when players aren’t successful, 
remember that this is an opportunity for creativity on their part (and, if 
necessary, on your part) to approach the problem from another angle. It is 
also a chance for the story to take an unexpected twist.

For Example: If Ida and Lucas are trying to break a coded message that 
they found in a secret government lab and fail their Brains rolls to solve 
it, what else could they do? Perhaps the code remains secret to them and 
they need to figure out another way to get to the bottom of what’s go-
ing on. Alternatively, though, they might seek out a non-player character 
who’s well-versed in codes... or one of their parents might walk by and 
notice something that gets them started. Don’t be afraid to use a little 
deus ex machina to keep things moving!

Or if Ida, Lucas, and the strange young girl they met in the woods are 
running from the men in dark suits chasing them, but their Flight rolls 
don’t come up the way they wanted, that might force a confrontation 
with the men in suits. As a result, the strange young girl might reveal that 
she can create and control fire sooner than you had been expecting her 
to. There’s nothing wrong with changing plans in the game, either!

Changing the Rules
As you know if you’ve looked at the modules that some of our amazingly 
creative friends have made for the game, we’re 100% okay with people 
changing the rules of the game. The purpose of playing is to make sure that 
everyone has fun and, with that in mind, if there’s something that would make 
it more fun for your group, we encourage you to add, alter, or discard rules 
to make Kids on Bikes the best experience it can be for you and your players.

PAGE 54



Early in the development process, our friend Nicholas Malinowski, whose 
work we consistently love and encourage everyone to check out, said, “I have 
an idea — but it would need to have a single player controlling the powered 
character. Is that okay?” It turned out to be one of the coolest early playtests 
we had of the game, and it really reinforced that if the experience is going to 
be made better through the addition, modification, or removal of rules, you 
should absolutely run with it.

Small changes, though, can have big consequences — so while it’s not 
possible to imagine all of the potential ripple effects, try to imagine them. And 
if you do change something and a clever player figures out an unexpected 
exploit, feel free either to tell them not to do that or to change the rule back 
or tweak it again.

PAGE 55



Appendix A - Relationship Questions
Character You Know - POSITIVE

1. What did this character do for you that makes you owe them a debt
you can’t repay?

2. What do you admire about this character — but would never tell them?
3. What great kindness did this character do for you that they don’t even

remember but you do?
4. What trait about this character that they despise do you genuinely

appreciate?
5. Why do you care about this character more than they care about you?
6. What role did this character play in the best day of your life?
7. What plan do you and this character have that most excites you?
8. What is your private nickname for this character and why?
9. What is the kindest thing this character has ever done for you?
10. What is this character sacrificing to protect you?
11. What lengths would you go to in order to defend this character?
12. Why do you have a bond with this character that can never be broken?
13. What about this character always makes you happy?
14. What is the bravest thing you’ve ever seen this character do?
15. What do you and this character have a mutual, weird love of?
16. What would losing this character mean to you?
17. What aspect of this character’s personality do you try to use as a model

for your own?
18. When did you first realize that you loved this character — either platon-

ically or romantically?
19. What’s your first memory of this character?
20. What item did this character give you that you treasure?

Reminders:
• Roll a d20 and answer that question about the character you’re establishing

a relationship with. If the question doesn’t fit what you have in mind for
that relationship, feel free to reroll or choose another question.

• Once you’ve answered, remember to cross out the question so that you
don’t answer that question about another character — and so that other
players don’t answer the same question.

• If you roll a question that has already been answered, choose the
question above or below, choose any question on the list, or reroll.

PAGE 56



Appendix A - Relationship Questions
Character You Know - NEGATIVE

1. What did this character do in the past that you still resent them for?
2. What secret are you keeping from this character that you would be

devastated if they found out?
3. What could make you betray this character?
4. What are you sure this character is hiding from you?
5. What does this character have that you want to take from them?
6. What is this character doing, either knowingly or unknowingly, that

hurts you?
7. What do you need to take from this character for their own good?
8. What role did this character play in the worst day of your life?
9. What is the most dishonest thing you’ve seen this character do?
10. What is this character doing that’s putting you both at risk?
11. What does this character do that makes you immediately lose your

temper?
12. How far would you go to avoid being alone with this character?
13. What part of this character’s personality scares you?
14. What would this character have to do to get you to forgive them?
15. What insanity has this character shown warning signs of?
16. How far would you go to make this character suffer?
17. Why do you dislike this character when all the other characters seem

to love them?
18. You hurt this character years ago. Why can’t you apologize?
19. What do you do to intentionally annoy this character?
20. How did this character betray you the last time you confided in them?

Reminders:
• Roll a d20 and answer that question about the character you’re establishing

a relationship with. If the question doesn’t fit what you have in mind for
that relationship, feel free to reroll or choose another question.

• Once you’ve answered, remember to cross out the question so that you
don’t answer that question about another character — and so that other
players don’t answer the same question.

• If you roll a question that has already been answered, choose the
question above or below, choose any question on the list, or reroll.

PAGE 57



Appendix A - Relationship Questions

Character You Don’t Know

1. What good thing have you heard about this character that you can’t
believe is true?

2. Why do some members of the town seek out this character?
3. What wonderful thing did this character do that the whole town was

talking about?
4. What charming habit is this character known for throughout the town?
5. What strange record does this character hold in the town?
6. Why is this character’s family so important in the town?
7. Why was your only brief interaction with this character so positive?
8. Based on what you know, how is this character different from the rest

of their family?
9. What volunteer work have you heard that this character does?
10. How far would you go to get to know this character and why?
11. What bad thing have you heard about this character that you can’t

believe is true?
12. What do you hope to gain by humiliating this relative stranger?
13. What bad reputation does this character have around the town?
14. Who does this character have a very public feud with?
15. Why are so many townspeople afraid of this character?
16. What terrible loss did this character suffer?
17. What do you hope to learn about this character to manipulate them?
18. What is this character doing to threaten their family’s reputation?
19. What scandal in the town was this character involved with?
20. Why don’t you want to associate with this character?

Reminders:
• Roll a d20 and answer that question about the character you’re establishing

a relationship with. If the question doesn’t fit what you have in mind for
that relationship, feel free to reroll or choose another question.

• Once you’ve answered, remember to cross out the question so that you
don’t answer that question about another character — and so that other
players don’t answer the same question.

• If you roll a question that has already been answered, choose the
question above or below, choose any question on the list, or reroll.

PAGE 58



Appendix B - Strengths

The strengths commonly associated with your trope can be found on their 
sheet in the Playbook. In discussion with the GM, you may instead choose 
from the list below. Remember, you start the game with two strengths.

Strength Description
Cool Under Pressure May spend 1 Adversity Token to take half of your 

die’s value instead of rolling on a Snap Decision.

Easygoing Gain 2 Adversity Tokens when you fail, instead of 1.

Gross You have some kind of gross bodily trick (loud, qui-
et, smelly... up to you) that you can do on command.

Heroic You do not need the GM’s permission to spend 
Adversity Tokens to ignore fears.

May spend 1 Adversity Token to ask the GM about 
Intuitive your surroundings, an NPC, or the like. The GM must 

answer honestly.

Loyal Each of the Adversity Tokens you spend to help 
your friends gives them a +2 instead of a +1.

Lucky May spend 2 Adversity Tokens to reroll a stat check.

May spend 2 Adversity Tokens to just happen to 
Prepared have one commonplace item with you (GM’s dis-

cretion).

Protective Add +3 to rolls when defending one of your friends.

Quick Healing 
(free for children; You recover from injuries more quickly, and don’t 

available to  suffer lasting effects from most injuries.
teens & adults)

Rebellious 
(free for and Add +3 to rolls when persuading or resisting per-
available only suasion from children. Add +3 to rolls when resist-

to teens) ing persuasion from adults.

PAGE 59



Strength Description
Skilled at ___ 

(free for adults; Choose a skill (GM’s discretion). You are assumed 
available to teens to succeed when making even moderately difficult 

and, at GM’s checks (9 or less) involving this skill. If the GM 
discretion, determines that you do need to roll for a more 
to children) difficult check, add up to +3 to your roll.

If you lose a combat roll, add +3 to the negative 
Tough number. You still lose the roll no matter what, but 

could reduce your loss to -1.

Treasure Hunter May spend 1 Adversity Token to find a useful item 
in your surroundings.

Unassuming May spend 2 Adversity Tokens to not be seen, 
within reason (GM’s discretion).

May spend money as though you were in a higher 
age bracket. For example, a wealthy child is consid-
ered to have the disposable income of a typical teen, 
and a wealthy teen is considered to have the dis-

Wealthy posable income of a typical adult. A wealthy adult is 
considered to not have to worry too much about 
money — they would certainly be able to buy 
anything they need, and likely able to spend their 
way out of a lot of situations.

PAGE 60



Appendix C - Flaws

The flaws commonly associated with your trope can be found on their sheet 
in the Playbook. In discussion with the GM, you may instead choose from the 
list below. Remember, you start the game with two flaws.

Flaws
Absent-Minded Neurotic

Blunt Obnoxious
Boastful Paranoid
Clumsy Patronizing

Conceited Perverse
Cowardly Petty
Deceitful Picky

Demanding Prejudiced
Disloyal Prim

Disobedient Reckless
Dogmatic Resentful
Envious Restless
Flippant Rude
Gloomy Secretive
Greedy Self-Centered

Hot-Tempered Self-Pitying
Ignorant Slovenly

Inconsiderate Superstitious
Insecure Vain
Irrational Vindictive

PAGE 61



Appendix D - Possible Aspects for Powered Characters
Type of Card Pre-Generated Options

Aggressive
Borderline Pyromaniac
Communicates Only Through 
Grunts and Gestures
Creative
Dexterous
Fascinated by Shiny Objects
Frequently Bursts Into Song
Gentle (Unless Provoked)
Good at Calming Others Down
Good at Hiding
Good at Reading People
Good Listener
Good Sense of Humor
Highly Concerned With Others
Ignorant of Social Norms
Impulsive

Personality Trait Lacks an Internal Monologue
Lashes Out When Touched
Loves Animals
Naive
Nearly Complete Amnesia
Never Wants to Be Alone
Obsessed With Cleanliness
Obsessed With Music
Obsessed With Solving Puzzles
Outgoing
Perfect Memory
Profoundly Claustrophobic
Quick (d20 Flight)
Rambles in an Unknown Language
Sarcastic
Scared of Being Inside
Scared of Bright Lights

PAGE 62



Type of Card Pre-Generated Options
Scared of Dogs
Scared of Loud Noises
Scared of Middle-Aged Men, 
Especially in Suits
Scared of the Dark
Scared of the Outdoors
Scrappy (d20 Fight)
Socially Adept (D20 Charm)
Strong (d20 Brawn)

Personality Trait Thinks They Are Being 
Pursued by a Cult
Thinks They Are Being Pursued 
by a Shadowy Corporation
Thinks They Are Being Pursued 
by an Evil, Supernatural Force
Tough (d20 Grit)
Usually Hungry
Very Fidgety
Very Intelligent (d20 Brains)
Well Spoken

Type of Card Pre-Generated Options
Afraid of a Member of the Group
Asks a Lot of Questions
Believes a Member of the Group 
Is Also Being Pursued
Believes a Member of the Group 
Is the “Chosen One”

RELATIONSHIP Believes the Entire Group Has a 
Special Destiny — But Only 

TO GROUP Together
Compelled to Help the Group 
Solve Mundane Problems
Completely Trusting of a Member 
of the Group
Demands Complete Respect or 
Worship From the Group

PAGE 63



Type of Card Pre-Generated Options
Distrusts a Member of the Group
Feigns Indifference Toward 
the Group
Highly Protective of a Member 
of the Group
Highly Protective of the 
Entire Group
Immediately Bonded to a Member 
of the Group
In Love, Platonically or 
Romantically, With a Member 
of the Group
Insists That the Group Remain 
Non-Violent
Mimics a Member of the Group

RELATIONSHIP Openly, but Not Physically, Hostile 
Toward a Member of the Group

TO GROUP Playfully Aggressive With a 
Member of the Group
Talkative With Members of the 
Group
Tries to Spread Forbidden 
Knowledge
Tries to Turn Members of the 
Group Against Each Other
Very Shy Around a Member of 
the Group
Wants to Bring the Group to
Another Realm
Wants to Help a Member of 
the Group
Willing to Sell the Use of Their 
Powers

Type of Card Pre-Generated Options
Able to Affect the Speed of Time
Able to Astrally Project

Psychic Power Able to Become Invisible
Able to Block Others’ Senses

PAGE 64



Type of Card Pre-Generated Options
Able to Change Their 
Body’s Density
Able to Change Their Physical 
Appearance
Able To Communicate 
Telepathically With Animals
Able to Communicate 
Telepathically With People
Able to Control Fire Telepathically
Able to Control Plants 
Telepathically
Able To Control Technology 
Telepathically
Able to Control the Weather
Able to Create False Memories
Able to Create Illusions
Able to Evoke Vivid (Often 

Psychic Power Painful) Memories
Able to Fire Bursts of Energy 
From Their Hands
Able to Harm Others by 
Touching Them
Able to Heal by Touching
Able to Hypnotize With Their Gaze
Able to Know an Object’s 
History by Touch
Able to Lift Much More Than 
Normal
Able to Move Faster Than Sight for 
Short Bursts
Able to Move Objects With Their 
Mind
Able to See Confusing Glimpses 
of the Future
Able to Teleport Short Distances

These pre-generated options are the ones found in the Powered Character 
Deck. As the GM, you should feel free to add any options that make sense 
for your game. Don’t feel confined by these suggestions.

PAGE 65



Appendix E - Tropes

Blue-Collar Worker
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Adult Brawn Fight Grit Charm Brains Flight

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Cool Under Pressure, Blunt, Boastful,  To what extent do What would it 
Lucky, Prepared, Disloyal, Disobedient, you enjoy the work mean for you if 
Skilled at..., Tough, Dogmatic, Envious, you do? you lost your job?
Treasure Hunter Greedy, Ignorant, 

Prejudiced, Reckless, 
Slovenly, Superstitious

Brilliant Mathlete
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Child/Teen Brains Flight Grit Charm Fight Brawn

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Gross, Intuitive, Loyal, Absent-Minded, Why do you get sat- How does your 
Prepared, Skilled at..., Clumsy, Conceited, isfaction from being social isolation 
Wealthy Cowardly, Insecure, good at math (or manifest itself?

Neurotic, Obnoxious, your other area of 
Patronizing, Resentful, expertise)?
Rude, Self-Pitying, 
Slovenly

Brutish Jock
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4
Teen Brawn Fight Grit Flight Charm Brains

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Gross, Heroic, Loyal, Boastful, Why do you get sat- What does your 
Protective, Skilled at..., Hot-Tempered, isfaction from being involvement with 
Tough Ignorant, Inconsiderate, good at sports? sports keep you 

Perverse, Petty, from doing that 
Prejudiced, you wish you 
Reckless, Restless, could do?
Rude, Self-Centered, 
Vindictive

PAGE 66



Instead of using this chart, you can also download the PDF Playbook from
huntersbooks.com/downloads-kidsonbikes.

Bully
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Child/Teen Fight Brawn Filight Grit Brains Charm

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Gross, Lucky, Demanding, What motivates your How do you feel 
Prepared, Skilled at..., Disobedient, Envious, bullying? when you hurt 
Tough, Wealthy Hot-Tempered, others?

Ignorant, 
Inconsiderate, 
Insecure, Irrational, 
Obnoxious, Perverse, 
Petty, Vindictive

conspiracy Theorist
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Teen/Adult Brains Fight Flight Grit Charm Brawn

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Heroic, Intuitive, Blunt, Deceitful, What do you think is How far will you 
Prepared, Skilled at..., Demanding happening in the town go to prove that 
Treasure Hunter, Inconsiderate, that no one knows you’re right?
Unassuming Irrational, Neurotic, about?

Paranoid, Prejudiced, 
Restless, Secretive, 
Slovenly, Superstitious

Funny Sidekick
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Child/Teen Charm Brawn Flight Brains Grit Fight

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Easygoing, Gross, Absent-Minded, What do you do that When does being 
Heroic, Protective, Boastful, Clumsy, always lightens your in the “sidekick” 
Skilled at..., Flippant, Neurotic, friends’ moods? role frustrate you?
Treasure Hunter Obnoxious, Perverse, 

Picky, Reckless, 
Restless, Slovenly, 
Superstitious

PAGE 67



Appendix E - Tropes

Laid-back Slacker
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Teen/Adult Flight Charm Brains Grit Brawn Fight

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Cool Under Pressure, Absent-Minded, Blunt, What do you think of What are you 
Easygoing, Skilled at..., Clumsy, Cowardly, people who try much willing to go the 
Treasure Hunter, Unas- Disloyal, Disobedient, harder than you do? extra mile for?
suming, Wealthy Flippant, Ignorant, 

Irrational, Reckless, 
Secretive, Slovenly

Loner Weirdo
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Child/Teen Grit Fight Brawn Brains Flight Charm

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Cool Under Pressure, Blunt, Deceitful, Why are you happier What part of the 
Intuitive, Prepared, Disloyal, Disobedient, fending for yourself? "cool kid” life do 
Skilled at..., Tough, Gloomy, Hot-Tempered, you wish you had, 
Unassuming Inconsiderate, just a little bit?

Obnoxious, Paranoid, 
Reckless, Rude, 
Secretive

Overprotective Parent
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Adult Fight Brains Brawn Charm Flight Grit

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Heroic, Loyal, Demanding, Dogmatic, When do you feel What would 
Prepared, Skilled at..., Gloomy, Insecure, appreciated by your losing your 
Tough, Wealthy Irrational, Neurotic, child/children? child/children 

Paranoid, Patronizing, mean to you?
Prim, Self-Pitying, 
Superstitious, Vain

PAGE 68



Instead of using this chart, you can also download the PDF Playbook from
huntersbooks.com/downloads-kidsonbikes.

Plastic Beauty
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4
Teen Charm Flight Fight Brains Brawn Grit

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Cool Under Pressure, Boastful, Conceited, How does it feel to What do you sac-
Intuitive, Lucky, Demanding, Flippant, have others think that rifice to remain 
Prepared, Skilled at..., Inconsiderate, Petty, you're "beautiful but beautiful?
Wealthy Picky, Prim, Rude, terrible"?

Self-Centered, Vain, 
Vindictive

Popular Kid
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Child/Teen Charm Flight Brains Grit Brawn Fight

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Cool Under Pressure, Conceited, Cowardly, Beyond people want- How do you treat 
Easygoing, Loyal, Deceitful, Demanding, ing to impress you the unpopular 
Lucky, Skilled at..., Disloyal, Flippant, and the social capital kids?
Wealthy Patronizing, Petty, that brings, what do 

Picky, Prim,  you like about being 
Self-Centered, Vain popular?

Reclusive Eccentric
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Adult Flight Brains Grit Brawn Fight Charm

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Prepared, Skilled Absent-Minded, Blunt, What drove you away What do you miss 
at..., Tough, Treasure Clumsy, Dogmatic, from the world at about being out 
Hunter, Unassuming, Gloomy, Inconsiderate, large? in the world?
Wealthy Neurotic, Obnoxious, 

Paranoid, Rude,  
Secretive, 
Self-Centered

PAGE 69



Appendix E - Tropes

Scout
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Child/Teen Brains Grit Charm Brawn Flight Fight

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Cool Under Pressure, Absent-Minded, Blunt, Who first got you into What do you 
Intuitive, Lucky, Boastful, Conceited, the Scouts (or, more have to give up 
Prepared, Skilled at..., Dogmatic,  generally, the great to spend as much 
Treasure Hunter Inconsiderate, outdoors)? time in nature as 

Patronizing, Restless, you do?
Slovenly, Superstitious, 
Vain, Vindictive

Stoic Professional
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4

Adult Grit Brains Charm Brawn Flight Fight

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Cool Under Pressure, Clumsy, Conceited, To what extent do What would you 
Easygoing, Heroic, Dogmatic, Flippant, you enjoy the work rather be doing?
Lucky, Prepared, Gloomy, Greedy,  you do?
Skilled at... Patronizing, Petty,  

Resentful, Rude,  
Secretive, Vindictive

Wannabe
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4
Teen Flight Brains Charm Grit Brawn Fight

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Intuitive, Loyal, Cowardly, Deceitful, What would it mean to What would you 
Prepared, Protective, Disloyal, Envious, be one of the popular sacrifice to be 
Skilled at..., Gloomy, Insecure,  kids? one of the cool 
Unassuming Paranoid, Petty, kids?

Resentful, Secretive, 
Self-Pitying, Vain

PAGE 70



Instead of using this chart, you can also download the PDF Playbook from
huntersbooks.com/downloads-kidsonbikes.

Young Provider
Age d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4
Teen Grit Brawn Charm Brains Fight Flight

Possible Strengths Likely Flaws Question 1 Question 2

Easygoing, Protective, Deceitful, Dogmatic, How has working to What have you 
Skilled at..., Tough, Greedy, Hot-Tempered, support your family had to give up for 
Treasure Hunter, Ignorant, Insecure, improved you as a your family?
Unassuming Irrational, Prejudiced, person?

Resentful, Restless, 
Self-Pitying,  
Superstitious

PAGE 71



Appendix F - Difficulty Ratings and Consequences

Difficulty Explanation & Example
A task at which only the most incredible could even possibly succeed 
— but if they succeed, it will be one of the most impressive things a 

20 character has ever done. This is a nearly guaranteed failure.

Examples: Lifting a car off of someone trapped under it; solving a 
nearly impossible math problem just by glancing at it.

A task for which success would be incredible and impressive. This, 
too, is a nearly guaranteed failure.

17-19 Examples: Talking a police officer out of arresting you when you 
have clearly broken the law and have no relationship with the 
officer; breaking a school record in track.

A task where success is extraordinary — but decidedly possible for 
characters who are truly skilled at it.

13-16
Examples: A lucky character finding the right item on the first try; 
someone trained in espionage withstanding police interrogation.

A task where success is impressive — but completely expected for 
characters skilled at it.

10-12
Examples: A strong person prying open a heavy, locked door; a 
computer whiz repairing a computer quickly under pressure.

A task where success is certain for characters who are very skilled at 
it — but not for those who aren’t.

7-9 Examples: Convincing the principal that it wasn’t you and your 
friends who started the cafeteria food fight; running a message 
from one end of a building to the other in a very short time.

A task where success is likely for all characters except those who 
aren’t skilled or who have a low stat in that field.

3-6
Examples: A lucky person drawing a non-face card from a deck; a 
character silently withstanding a verbal berating.

A task where success is guaranteed, except in extreme cases.
1-2 Examples: A character lifting a 10-pound weight over their head; a 

character reciting a multiplication table.

PAGE 72



Roll - Target
(with applicable modifiers) Guidelines for Failure or Success

The character succeeds smoothly and easily. Likely, it 
looks like the character is just showing off, or that the task 

+10 or higher is done so readily that it happens without any effort at all. 
At the GM’s discretion (and certainly not necessarily), there 
could be some unexpected positive results from a success 
of this degree.
The character succeeds quite impressively. At the GM’s 

+5 to +9 discretion, the character might have some additional 
benefits beyond the success, but these will be slight — and 
only if important for pushing the game forward.
The character succeeds, but not impressively. Any benefits 

+1 to +4 the character gains above and beyond the success should 
be quite limited — if present at all.
The character succeeds, but just barely. Decidedly, 

0 nothing surprising happens — and the player and the GM 
should make this success as skin-of-the-teeth as possible.
The character fails, but not too badly. There might be 

-4 to -1 some very, very minor short-term consequences, but these 
won’t shift the story for more than a minute or two. The 
character has tried and almost succeeded.
The failure is bad, but not a disaster. There will be some 
short-term consequences that might lead to some 

-9 to -5 immediate difficulties — but nothing that the character 
can’t handle if they focus on them. The character has tried 
to do or has been forced to do something beyond their 
capabilities. And, not surprisingly, they’ve failed.
The failure is profound. There will be consequences for 
this failure, likely in keeping with what would be expected, 
but that doesn’t mean that those consequences won’t be 

-14 to -10 very bad. These consequences may strongly influence the 
course of the current play session. Generally, though, a 
character will only find themself failing this badly when 
they bite off more than they can probably chew — or 
because of the cruelty of the GM.
The failure is staggering and catastrophic. There will be 
both immediate and long-term consequences for this 
failure, above and beyond what might be expected. These 

-15 or lower consequences might lead to serious changes in the course 
of the long-term arc of the story — especially because 
the character should only find themselves failing this 
badly through total recklessness or because the GM has 
purposefully put them in a staggeringly difficult situation.

PAGE 73



Result of Rolls
 (with applicable modifiers) Narrative Result

defender’s roll Narrative Control: The defender narrates the outcome.
is greater than

or equal to Effect: The defender is uninjured; the projectiles miss 
attacker’s roll or the blows don’t land or hurt them enough to matter.

Narrative Control: The attacker explains how they 
attack, and the defender narrates what they do to 

attacker’s roll mitigate the harm to them.
is greater by

 1 to 3 Effect: The defender is hurt, but only temporarily; the 
bullet grazes them, but they’re okay; the punch stuns 
them, but they can shake it off.

Narrative Control: The attacker explains their attack, 
and the defender explains how they respond. The 
attacker then explains how this barely mitigates the 
harm.

attacker’s roll 
is greater by Effect: The defender is fairly hurt; the bullet hits them 

4 to 6 and they need medical attention soon to prevent it 
from causing permanent damage; they’re dazed and 
likely concussed, but they can keep going; their ribs are 
going to hurt for a few days and breathing might sting 
for a few hours.

Narrative Control: The attacker explains their at-
tack, and the defender explains how they respond. 
The attacker can alter any of these details as the 
defender explains them. Then, the attacker explains 

attacker’s roll how this response fails to prevent harm.
is greater by 

7 to 9 Effect: The defender is badly hurt; the bullet hits them 
dead on, and they’re losing a lot of blood and need 
professional care immediately or they’ll die; they’re 
unconscious and will be badly concussed when they 
wake up; the bone is broken.

Narrative Control: The attacker has full control over 
the narrative. They explain what the defender does 
in response to the attack — and how ineffective this 

attacker’s roll response is.
is greater by Effect: The defender is dead or quite nearly dead; 
10 or more the bullet hits them between the eyes and nothing 

can save them; they’re beaten so badly that only 
immediate medical attention can help — but there will 
be permanent effects.

PAGE 74



Name:
Age:             
Fear
M ivation
Flaws

Description

Cool Under Pressure Quick Healing
Easygoing Rebellious
Gross Skilled At
Heroic
Intuitive ugh

yal Treasure Hunter
Lucky Unassuming
Prepared Wealthy
Pr ective

Charm Brains Fight

Flight Brawn Grit






Strange Events In Small Towns

The Adventure Modules



Strange Events In Small Towns
82 Dads on Mowers - Suburbtopia, USA

by Banana Chan

86 Strange Things Afoot at the Circle Q - Carson Creek, CO
by Matt Colville

90 Lake Asibikaashi - Lake Asibikaashi, CO
by Eddie Freeman

94 Snow Days at Chanky Cheez - Snowsville, NY
by Jonathan Gilmour & Doug Levandowski

97 Nights at Garuda Lake - Garuda Lake, VT
by Anton Kromoff

101 Talkeetna of Troubles - Talkeetna, AK
by Kevin Kulp

105 Shadows From Sharon Hollow - Sharon Hollow, MI
by Amanda Hamon Kunz

109 Pointing Pleasantly - Point Pleasant, NJ
by Doug Levandowski

113 Boxcar Boys - Railroads of the USA
by Kira Magrann

117 Welcome to Stahlsburg - Stahlsburg, RI
by Sen-Foong Lim



121 Torn Memories - Elysium, FL
by Nicholas Malinowski

124 The Snyder Sisters - Shephard, MI
by Tamaria Montgomery, Bill West, and CyberLeo

128 What Lurks Beyond Southwood Drive? - Arlington Meadows, OH
by Epidiah Ravachol

132 Starship Maurepas - Maurepas, LA
by Jesse Roberge

136 Double Trouble at Skateland - Southridge, CA
by Elisa Teague

139 Ghosts & Steel - East Berwick, PA
by Josh Thaler

142 Minor Threat - Washington, DC
by Ben Walker

146 The Culling in Cheyenne - Cheyenne, WY
by Ross Watson

149 Between the Cracks - Spicerville, NY
by Scott Woodard

152 Butter Tarts and Broken Bones - Tenapanguisine, On
by Jim Zub and the Danger Dice Gang

The Adventure Modules






Introduction to the Modules
by Doug & Jon

When we created Kids on Bikes, we were incredibly excited by the collaborative 
world-building. We’re both creative guys, so we like creating! Some early testers, 
though, thought the experience could benefit from a few places for newer players to 
start — or for experienced players to have a more GM-driven experience.

The result of that feedback is these modules: 22 settings created by some of the most 
creative people we know. The things people have done within the system are weird, 
chilling, and just plain fun. We’re sure that, as you look through them, you’ll feel the 
same!

BUT! Talk to your GM before reading. The surprises in some modules might be spoiled 
if you read them first!

A few words about using the modules:

• Every element in the modules is a suggestion. If there’s an NPC (non-player char-
acter) or location that doesn’t fit, don’t include it. If you want to change a detail
about something in the module, change it! The decisions you and the other play-
ers make with the narrative should still drive the story more than these sugges-
tions, which are just meant to help get you started.

• Instead of the standard town creation questions, each module has its own alter-
nate questions, which fall into four categories:

• Group: These are questions that the group should discuss and answer,
agreeing on answers together.

• Individual, Shared: These are questions that each player will answer about
their own character, then reveal to the rest of the group. The answers are
public knowledge.

• Individual, Shared or Private: These are questions that others might know
about your character or might not. Everyone will answer them, but it’s up
to you if you want to share your answer with the group.

• Individual, Private: These are questions that each player answers but
won’t share with the group. They’re ways for players to frame their char-
acters within the module — but not necessarily to tell the others. Howev-
er, if a player thinks it should be shared, they can feel free to!

With that, enjoy the modules — we know we did!

– Doug & Jon

PAGE 81



Dads on Mowers - Suburbtopia, USA
by Banana Chan

Content Warnings: body horror, claustrophobia, gaslighting, memory loss, human 
experimentation, lack of autonomy

Setting information
Welcome to Merrygrove Lane! It’s a beautiful little cul-de-sac in Suburbtopia, a town 
nestled somewhere in the United States in the early 2000s.

Get comfortable in your new five-bedroom, three-bathroom house, because every 
one of the 10 houses in this idyllic community is a five-bedroom, three-bathroom 
house. With a swimming pool, backyard, and garage, you’ll always be busy with home 
improvement projects. Looking for a night out on the town? Your best buds can paint 
the town red (figuratively) at Merry Hardware, the local hardware store, or knock 
back some brewskis at Goodman’s. Or say hi to the Mayor of Coffee Cat and grab 
a frappuccino!

Every weekday, the residents follow a strict schedule of waking up, getting the kids 
ready for school, carpooling, working, and finally coming home to loving families, with 
dinner and a quick drink before bedtime. But it’s now the weekend and that’s when 
things really get wild! Barbecue? Karaoke at Goodman’s? That new home renovation 
project? You have all the freedom to do whatever is socially acceptable in this little 
bubble of a town. Especially yelling at kids to get off your lawn!

The only weird thing about the town is 150 Merrygrove, the house at the end of the 
cul-de-sac. The residents have only ever seen an 11-year-old kid go in and come out of 
the house. Weird as that is, the kid has never bothered anyone, so no one really cares!

Setting Touchstones
Dream Daddy (video game), The Good Place (TV series), Herb Ferman (person), No 
Exit (play), The Sims (video game), Westworld (film)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
Group: What do you and your pals have planned for this weekend? 
Individual, Shared: What kind of dad are you — a soccer dad, a music dad, a literature 
dad, another kind of dad? Put your answer on your character sheet.
Individual, Shared: Where is your relationship partner? Business trip? Or are you a single 
parent? If you have a partner, they must be somewhere else for the duration of the game. 

PAGE 82



Individual, Shared: What do you do for a living? Are you retired at the cozy age of 45 
or 50? Or maybe you’re working from home for Business Corp doing finance stuff. 
Whatever it is, your work is confined to the town of Suburbtopia.
Individual, Shared: How many kids do you have, and what are they like? Is one of them 
the class clown, the school bully, the popular kid?
Individual, Shared: Who do you trust the most within your community of dad friends? 
This will be between you and another player and may not be mutual.

Possible Points of Interest
Establishments in the town

• Merry Hardware, the local hardware store where you can get all the knicks and knacks.
• Goodman’s Sports Bar, every dad’s favorite watering hole. Adults come here to watch

the game and cheer for their sports team. Weekends have karaoke nights, open mics,
or chili cookoffs.

• Coffee Cat, a coffee shop that serves pastries. Its ragdoll cat logo, the Mayor of Coffee
Cat, strolls casually among the shop’s wicker chairs.

• The Grocer, which is where you shop for food. For some strange reason, this is the
place where everyone comes to gossip and make small talk.

• Floof Hair Salon and Barber, where you go to keep that hair shiny and healthy!
Places your character wouldn’t really care about, but may have interactions with

• Your kids’ school, a place that you don’t visit much.
• The mall, where the teenagers hang out. It’s kind of scary, but it has everything

you need, including a movie theater. Strangely, none of the stores and popups in
the mall compete with any of the town’s long-standing establishments.

Other locations
• The park, which has a bunch of trees, a duck pond, and a jogging path.
• Business Corp, where the business people work, doing finance things.

Possible NPCs
• Arthur, manager of the Grocer, who’s been pushing to have more variety at the

store. He’s extremely knowledgeable about food, but he can be a little stuck-up
and gossipy.

• Ernest, the owner of Merry Hardware and everybody’s best friend. He’s older
and has lived in Suburbtopia for as long as you can remember. You and your pals
sometimes hang out at Merry Hardware just to chat about your next projects.

• George, one of the bartenders at Goodman’s Sports Bar. George is tall, tattooed,
and kind of a goof. If you need that extra shot, George will take care of you. She also
keeps most of the town’s secrets.

• Dr. Henson, the town therapist. A lovely middle-aged doctor who has been living in
the town for as long as you can remember.

• Morgan Hilcox, CEO of Business Corp. No one’s ever seen or spoken to Morgan, but
every year the families in town receive a holiday card from the CEO.

• Jenna, the talkative and fashionable owner of Floof. Whether you need a new style
or just a trim, Jenna (or Jenn) can emulate any magazine image.

• Joe, a dad from down the street who hangs out at the park to fish. You say “good
morning” to him but don’t know much about him except he’s a passionate angler.

• The Mayor of Coffee Cat, a large tabby cat that is the revered icon of the local
coffee shop. She’s quite clumsy and gets into trouble a lot.

• Mr. Wilson, the principal (ugh!) at your kids’ school. Does anyone else find it weird
that he makes everyone call him Mr. Wilson? A creepy man who seems to hate
children (or people?) in general.

PAGE 83



Possible Adventure Hooks
• A tree in the park has been replaced by a series of moving data sets. It looks like it’s

contained within the space where the tree used to be, but no one can be too sure.
The local law enforcement has placed caution tape around it, and they say they’re
“looking into it.” It can’t be a result of Y2K, can it?

• Your kids want to have a sleepover at 150 Merrygrove, but something about it just
doesn’t sit right with you. You’ve heard stories about the basement lights flickering
and static noises coming from the house… You also don’t want to disappoint your
kids. It sounds like almost all the neighborhood kids have decided to go. Even Joe’s
kids are going.

• Joe from down the street was seen in his fishing gear during the workday, walking
head first into the wall of the house over and over, repeating the word “maze.”

• Jenna walked into her salon to find a garbage bag full of detached arms and legs.
It’s been reported to the local authorities, but someone has to do something!

• Mr. Wilson has invited all of you to a gathering at his house — an address on a street
that you weren’t aware of before. The invitation even has an image of the house
(assuming you might get lost?), which is a large, dark-grey mansion with no windows.

• All the food has gone rotten at the Grocer, even the canned food. Inside the metal
tins, maggots squirm in place of preserved meat, and all the fresh produce stinks of
death left unattended for days. It happened overnight, but it looks like the death is
slowly seeping to the grass on the premises.

• The Mayor of Coffee Cat has gone missing! Help the coffee shop (and the town)
find her again — before the situation is declared a cat-tastrophe!

Possible Threats
• You and the other dads have shared dreams about people dressed in lab coats

wandering your town at night, examining you and your friends. You also feel like
pieces of your memory are missing.

• You wake up one weekday to go to work and notice how beautiful the sky is — a
deep dusk red, mixed with purples and oranges, with clouds painted in. As the
day goes by, you notice that the sky hasn’t changed. Clouds haven’t moved, the
moon hasn’t come out; it has remained dusk for hours.

• Business Corp wants to create their own cryptocurrency. They are attempting to
force all the small businesses to use the new BusiCoin, instead of Suburboleons.

• All roads lead back to Suburbtopia. It looks like, even if you wanted to leave, you
couldn’t. But of course, why would you want to leave this perfect little town?

• Your kids’ school is closed until further notice. Now you have to think of ways to
keep your kids out of trouble, before you can head on your own adventure.

• There’s some new drug that’s going around called RealiTV. It causes the user to
zone out for hours. While users claim to “see the truth,” the news reports that
users will “experience false and alternate memories.” Users must be taken to
Dr. Henson for therapy. You have to have the drug talk with your kids.

Possible Powered Characters
• The kid at 150 Merrygrove is quiet, mostly. No one’s ever seen their parents. You’ve

even tried asking your own kids about this kid, without much luck. They have a
secret, you just don’t know what it is — but you’d like to find out.

Possible Monsters
• Tourists come and go, but the worst part is the garbage they leave behind in our

beautiful town. Sometimes they get rowdy at the bar and start fights. Tourists
cannot be harmed. If you try to hurt a tourist, you will be out of the game.

• What is up with the teenagers’ hair? And why do they act like they know some-
thing that you don’t? They hang out at the mall and play their strange music really
loud, sitting around with skateboards.

• Mr. Wilson might be the devil, under that human façade.

PAGE 84



ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Use the Dad character sheet, available at huntersbooks.com/downloads-kidsonbikes.

Possible Strengths:
• Adorable: Everything you do is cute. You may add +2 to all checks, including

those of other players, as long as you are all in the same scene.
• Beard: The Floof Hair Salon and Barber is your playground! Your rolls here

automatically succeed.
• Dad Abs: You get +2 to Charm, hottie!
• Lucky: You may spend two Friendship Tokens to reroll a stat check.
• Puns: If you can make a pun out of a situation, you get +1 to any one stat until the

end of that scene.
• Resourceful: You may spend two Friendship Tokens to create something out of

items sprawled around the scene.
• Vroom Vroom: You know everything about fixing vehicles. You get +2 to Brains

when working on a vehicle.

Possible Flaws:
• Awkward: If you choose this flaw, you must choose the Adorable strength. You

don’t know where to put your arms sometimes. -2 to your Brains.
• Clumsy: During scenes that require Brawn, even if you succeed at the stat check,

something unexpected happens.
• Embarrassing: Any time you are in a scene with your kid, -2 to your Charm.
• Grumpy: Ugh, every day feels like a Monday and your coffee is constantly a gross,

lukewarm temperature. -2 to your Brains and Brawn.
• Patronizing: Well, actually… You feel like you need to correct people, even your

own pals. Every time you start a sentence with “Well, actually…” you get -1 to your
Charm permanently.

• Sweaty: Why is it always warm? You’re just always sweaty.

Adversity & Friendship Tokens: Adversity Tokens do not exist in this module. Any 
time you would gain an Adversity Token, gain a Friendship Token instead. Friendship 
Tokens can be used to activate strengths, just like Adversity Tokens, or players can 
turn in 10 Friendship Tokens to take a Dad Nap.

More Than a Bromance: Dads can flirt with one another, which may lead to romantic 
relationships. If a player would like to flirt or engage in romance, they will need to first 
ask the target player if that is okay. If both players agree to the romance, then the 
initiating player will roll Charm. If it is a 6 or higher, the roll succeeds and the players 
will give a description of what happens. If the roll fails, the initiating player gains a 
Friendship Token.

Dad Nap: You’re exhausted! It’s time for a nap. This can happen any time you 
decide to turn in 10 Friendship Tokens, even in times of danger. During a Dad Nap, you 
duck out of the action (because you’re asleep), but can aid other players if they need 
assistance with their rolls or scenes by sharing the 10 Friendship Tokens amongst 
themselves. Only one dad can be napping at a time and the shared Friendship Tokens 
must be split amongst all of the other players — they cannot be given to just one.

We’ve Got Each Other: Players can spend the entire game sitting around, watching 
sports, hanging out on their lawns, romancing one another, and not progressing with 
adventures or scenarios — and that’s absolutely okay! Just make sure that everyone is 
comfortable with going this route instead of following the story. If players would like 
to go this laid-back route but would also like to play out an adventure, the missing 
Mayor of Coffee Cat adventure is a good choice. Set expectations and the tone of 
the game beforehand so that everyone is comfortable with the game and having fun.

PAGE 85



Strange Things Afoot at the 
Circle Q - Carson Creek, CO

by Matt Colville

Content Warnings: alcoholism, bodysnatching, homelessness, kidnapping, racism,
violence against animals, xenophobia

Setting information 
Nestled in the shadow of Cheyenne Mountain, just 90 minutes from lovely downtown 
Colorado Springs, Carson Creek is indistinguishable from a dozen other small towns in 
Colorado. Flat, dominated by a single main road, the town is home to fewer than 300 
people, those without reason or opportunity to move to the city. Unemployment and 
alcoholism are common — but for a kid, these are distant problems, realities of adult life 
that serve only to make grown-ups surly and suspicious of a handful of idle kids on bikes. 

There’s a bar on the main road, the Kicking Boots (only one of the boots on the 
ancient neon sign works, so everyone just calls it the Boot), but kids only go there under 
extreme conditions: when things are so bad that a grown-up is absolutely needed, 
which is almost never. Surely there’s no problem you can’t solve with your friends! 

For a 12-year-old with nothing to do except get in trouble, the only real place to hang 
out is the local Circle Q convenience store. It has three arcade games in the corner, 
left over from an earlier era: Space Killers, Galaxinoid, and a 50-cent laserdisc game 
called Galen’s Quest, which none of the kids in town have ever beaten. Must be rigged! 

The owner of the Circle Q is an immigrant, the only immigrant in town so far as 
the kids know — an older, dark-skinned man who everyone says is from Iraq and 
who’s been running the Circle Q for their entire lives. Mahmoud Shariari is routinely 
tormented by the kids, who generally bear him no real malice. He is long-suffering 
and used to dealing with pre-teens. But something about him gives the impres-
sion of a man on the edge, a man capable of doing anything if pushed far enough. 

For pre-teens cycling down the dirt roads and trails of Carson Creek, the world is still a 
wide and exciting place. Entering their teenage years, they soon discover the suburbs 
have no charms to soothe the restless dreams of youth…

Setting Touchstones
Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure (film), E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (film), Firestarter (film), 
WarGames (film)

PAGE 86



Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: Who among you has the highest score in Galaxinoid?
• Group: Which of you got into an argument with Mr. Killian, the history teacher, and

was suspended for three days? What was the argument about?
• Group: Whose parents most recently had a visit from Chief Kelly? What had

you done to occasion the visit?
• Individual, Shared: Who is your favorite teacher at Questa Verde High? What

subject do they teach?
• Individual, Shared or Private: Do you ever think about leaving Carson Creek when

you grow up?
• Individual, Shared or Private: Who in town do you go to when things get weird?
• Individual, Private: When desperate, what have you done for arcade money?

Possible Points of Interest
Lighthearted

• The Circle Q, the kids’ hangout and arcade. The owner, Mahmoud Shariari, is
extremely grumpy. There are many rumors about his background.

• Carson Creek Ice Palace, an ice skating rink that’s seen better days, but is still in
operation. Mostly older kids and families go here.

Serious
• The Kicking Boots, a grown-up place where it seems everyone and everything is

openly hostile toward kids — including the sounds and the smells. May have to be
braved if the kids need help.

• EnCom Scientific Instruments, the tallest building in town at three stories, and the
town’s main employer. When the kids’ parents talk about going to “work,” they
mean ESI. Several of the rooms are now empty, and the rest are devoted mostly to
packaging centrifuges for the medical industry. It was once famous for developing
the microencabulator.

Either
• Questa Verde High, the most elaborate structure in town. Built in the ’50s when the

town was larger and growing, the school has a computer lab, a science lab, and a
library. It is the nexus of the kids’ daily lives.

• Royal Bridge Mall, a shopping center shaped like a plus sign. Three of the four wings
are now abandoned and serve as a source of adventure and danger for the kids.
The other wing is mostly shoe stores.

Possible NPCs
• Rachel Kelly, daughter of “Big Red” Kelly, the town’s previous long-standing police

chief. Rachel was elected chief primarily because of her name and famous father.
She is seen by the kids as the town boogeyman, but Chief Kelly is basically on their
side when things get weird.

• Grover Killian, history teacher at Questa Verde High School. He is also Colonel
Shariari’s minder in Carson Creek. Mr. Killian teaches history as nothing but a series
of wars and is known for being tough, teaching a hard class to ace. His status as a
Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Air Force is unknown to the town, and his friend-
ship with Mahmoud is likewise a secret.

• Mr. King, the abusive, alcoholic father of one of the local kids. Mr. King is on welfare,
along with 12% of the rest of the town, and he resents it and everyone. He can be a
real terror, but the other adults in town remember when he was a promising writer
as a young man, before everything fell apart after a car accident.

• Mr. Lightman, Questa Verde High School’s IT guy is only 23, but to the kids that
means he’s an adult and therefore not someone to be confided in. However, when
push comes to shove, he is easier to talk to (more of a nerd) than any of the other
grown-ups in town and may turn out to know — or strongly suspect — what’s going
on more than anyone else that the kids have access to.

PAGE 87



• Colonel Mahmoud Shariari, owner of the Circle Q and agent of the U.S. govern-
ment. Fished out of Iran prior to the 1979 revolution by then-Captain Grover Killian
and spirited back to the United States, Colonel Mahmoud Shariari is responsible for
the “Storage Locker” under the Circle Q — where a nearby shadowy government
agency stores its mistakes and those discoveries it doesn’t know what to do with.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• A stranger needs help and seems reluctant to ask any of the adults in town. The

traveler is either oddly unfamiliar with the town, constantly in awe of simple things
like smartphones and microwaves, or strangely familiar with it, noting how the ESI
building is still standing — depending on whether he’s from the past or the future.
Of course, the government arrives to bag him and stuff him back in the Storage
Locker, but whether they succeed depends on the kids… and whether the Time
Traveler is on their side. He could be the hero or the villain.

• Known for haunting the local woods since the ’80s, the Wild Man is described as
short, hairless, and dressed in rags. Known for killing and eating small animals, pets,
and local game, the Wild Man seems especially interested in the Circle Q. When a
local murder is blamed on him, it’s up to the kids to discover the truth and try to get
the Wild Man back to his spaceship, hidden in the Storage Locker under the Circle
Q, and from there back to his home planet.

• Sudden seismic disturbances around Carson Creek are initially blamed on fracking.
What else could it be, given the state’s history of geological stability? When folks
start disappearing, and one of the kids gets her bike eaten from under her by a
giant toothed worm that disappears back into the ground, it becomes obvious
that the local tremors are not caused by natural gas extraction. Mapping all the
incidents, it seems the Circle Q is, both literally and metaphorically, at the center
of it all. The mutated, weaponized nematode experiment, abandoned in the ’90s,
seems to have decided to become un-abandoned all on its own!

Possible Threats
• A detective arrives in town and grills the kids about the owner of the Circle Q. How

much do they know about him? Though he seems fair, he is foul. A Russian spy!
• A new science teacher in town teaches strange hypotheses featuring alien beings

from beyond time. Where is he from, and why did he pick Carson Creek of all places
to settle down?

• A new agrochemical company, the Advance Combine, buys ESI and lays off all the
adults in town. They bring in their own employees, who all wear sunglasses, even
at night.

Possible Powered Characters
• A new student seems nice, but refuses to make friends and gets very angry if

touched. This pyrokinetic young man escaped the Storage Locker and is hiding in
plain sight, living in the abandoned mall.

• When sufficiently inebriated, Mr. Fennel the town drunk mutters and raves. Paying
close attention to his drunken ramblings reveals that Mr. Fennel is precognetic,
glimpsing visions of the future.

• Sparky, the town mutt, sleeps outside the Circle Q, living off the scraps the store’s
owner throws out. Born next to the dumpster, he has spent his whole doggy life
absorbing the alien radiations emitted from deep underground. Sparky is quite a bit
smarter than the average dog and seems to understand even complex sentences,
though he only barks.

PAGE 88



Possible Monsters
• The teachers at Questa Verde, one by one, have been acting strangely, as though

they don’t recognize the students, ever since the eclipse last month. What
happened to the teachers, and what exactly are these beings that replaced them?

• Reports of a saber-toothed tiger, first one then several, sweep through town. When
one of the massive felines — which looks suspiciously like the English teacher’s
missing house cat — is seen eating the high school groundskeeper, it’s time for the
police chief to act. Meanwhile, the owner of the Circle Q notices the cat food is long
past its sell-by date, and quietly throws out all his stock…

• Mrs. Greenwich was over 80 years old, so no one thought anything of it when her
new hybrid car rolled over her, killing her. Surely, it was an accident. When other
vehicles in town — never more than one at a time — start acting aggressively, and a
handful of deaths are linked to them, folk demand the auto companies recall their
vehicles, blaming them for manufacturing faulty onboard computers. So far, the AI
that escaped from the Storage Locker hasn’t found a way out of town, but it’s only
a matter of time…

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
All characters in this module should be between the ages of 12 and 15.

Author’s Note: This module is greatly informed by my own experiences, both growing 
up and even to this day. My local convenience store was run by (as I thought of him 
at the time) a “foreigner” — someone I knew was from a Middle Eastern country. But, 
at 13 years old, I had no idea which and if you’d have told me, I’d have confused it and 
forgotten it quickly.

He seemed, to teenaged me, surly and quick to anger, so of course we delighted in 
provoking him and testing boundaries, as is the job of all teenaged boys.

As I grew up, I learned more about him, and I realized this was a very complex and inter-
esting person: an educated, prideful man who left his home country after a revolution 
that he was on the losing side of, a man who now worked like a mule for as many hours 
as God sent to provide not just a home, but a future for his family here in the States.

And given how demonic we were as teenagers, his attitude toward us was actually quite 
knowing and indulgent, although we did not perceive that at the time (and it would 
have ruined the fun if we had, which he probably knew). We saw him as an alien from a 
foreign land, but he saw us as just a bunch of typical teenagers. – Matt

PAGE 89



Lake Asibikaashi - Lake Asibikaashi, CO
by Eddie Freeman

Content Warnings: dream manipulation, hallucinations, massacre of indigenous 
peoples, nightmares, sleep deprivation, spiders

Setting information
Nestled in the mountains of Colorado, Lake Asibikaashi is a destination for camping, 
fishing, and many other outdoor adventures. During the cold season, the Dreamseeker 
Resort brings skiers and winter thrill-seekers to the region. During the warmer months, 
Camp Provenance brings scouts and their families, while on the other end of the lake 
the affluent summer crowd parties and floats their summer away.

Logging, hunting, and the fur trade — as well as the Oneirological Apperception 
Research (OAR) facility — create year-round viability for local residents. Economically 
the town is prospering, thanks to the strong, year-round influx of visitors, as well as 
the construction boom’s unending need for wood, ceramics, and other materials.

Rumors abound of a massacre that took place generations ago at the mouth of the 
valley, where many Arapaho tribe members were slain in their sleep while escaping a 
greater conflict. Locals mention witnessing spirits wandering the forest at night.

The town is famous for the legend that the island in the middle of the lake was once 
the home of the Spider Woman, also known as Asibikaashi, who was said to protect 
the people of the area by weaving webs of warding, both in the waking world and in 
the Dreamscape.

Setting Touchstones
Inception (film), “Masterpiece” (short story from Creepypasta), A Nightmare on Elm 
Street (film)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: Is the OAR facility still active? If so, what do you know about the work they

do there? If not, why was it closed?
• Group: What is a rumor about the town that you have heard?
• Individual, Shared: What does your character do during the off-season?
• Individual, Shared or Private: Have you witnessed the spirits at the massacre site?

If so, how did it affect you? Did you see one of your ancestors?
• Individual, Shared or Private: What is a living thing that you have recently had

dreams about?
• Individual, Private: What is a reoccurring dream that you have and why do you

keep it secret?

PAGE 90



Possible Points of Interest
• Camp Provenance, a Scout camp that kids have attended and made memories at

for generations.
• Dreamseeker Resort, a high-end ski and adventure resort in the mountains, which

attracts visitors year round.
• Oneirological Apperception Research (OAR), an ominous facility that little is known

about. Occasionally recruits locals for experimentation and “sleep studies.” There
are rumors that some have reoccuring nightmares after these studies.

• Dreamcatcher Island, a highly spiritual, forested island in the middle of the lake.
• The Arapaho massacre site, a tragic landmark of local history. The spirits lingering

from this can often be found in the woods and around the mouth of the valley.
• Wallace’s Wonderland, the local adventure supply store. Catering to all your climb-

ing, diving, spelunking, and mountaineering needs.
• Sipatu’s cabin, where the shaman can be found. Located high in the mountains on

the outskirts of the resort.

Possible NPCs
• Damian Holloway, owner of the Dreamseeker Resort. He also owns the biggest

house on the lake (of course).
• Dr. Anna Morse, chief scientist (either current or former) at the OAR Facility. She is

fearful that there are layers to dreams far beyond what modern science has discov-
ered, and that discovering them may unlock what she refers to as “Pandora’s Box.”

• Neche ‘Amber’, known by many as “the creepy person in the woods.” A runaway
from adoption in her early life, she has lived and survived off the land. She mainly
keeps to herself and does not have much contact with the town. But when she
does, she is followed by hushed whispers and sideways glances. (Possibly a
powered character, a dreamwalker.)

• Devon Sharpe, local hunter and the second most knowledgeable person about the
woods surrounding the lake. Devon can often be found leading Scouts and tourists
on adventures through the wilderness.

• Sipatu, a local shaman and keeper of the lore of the local tribes. Lives in a cabin
high in the mountain range near Dreamseeker Resort. Sipatu is occasionally in
conflict with the resort.

• Willoughby Wallace, the owner of Wallace’s Wonderland. The adventures of his
younger years have caught up to him, and while he is no longer able to adventure
himself, he now runs the local Adventurers League and teaches survival skills. You
may also know him as Scoutmaster Wallace.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• During a hike with Devon, the characters encounter the wolf spirit.
• The characters encounter Neche and she reveals that she knows more about them

than they know about her.
• The conflict between Sipatu, Holloway Enterprises, and Camp Provenance reaches

a boiling point, and the characters need to choose a side.
• The Nottmor is the corruption of the Spider Woman who originally protected

dreams. Changed through the locals’ treatment of the indigenous peoples and
OAR’s experimentation on the Dreamscape.

• A character with ties to the local tribes goes through a ritual to connect with their
ancestors, which reveals that there is some truth to the rumors about the area.

• A character witnesses the spirits of the massacre and is beseeched to release them
from their torment.

PAGE 91



Possible Threats
• There’s a secretive cult that worships the Nottmor and wants to bring about an

endless slumber.
• Shadowy government agents are connected to OAR — or are looking into it.
• Holloway Enterprises wants to develop more of the town, including the sacred

lands of the indigenous peoples.

Possible Powered Characters
• A dreamwalker who, while asleep, can move between people’s dreams. Often

knows secrets or untold fantasies of people in town.
• A wolf spirit that has roamed this area since ancient times. Able to shapeshift to

hide itself amongst people. Its howl can often be heard throughout the valley as
it ushers in the night, during which it patrols the dreamscape for abnormalities. It
appears to the characters as something they have recently dreamed about.

• A child that has manifested from the Dreamscape experiments at OAR. Able to
temporarily manifest people’s dreams and nightmares.

Possible Monsters
• The Nottmor (Night Mother) is less of a person, and more of a concept that has

escaped the Dreamscape experiments at OAR. Manifesting and feeding off the
energy generated by dreams (both good and bad), it wants to keep you dreaming
as long as possible. The caress of the Night Mother is warm and comforting, as she
watches you slumber with her eyeless stare.

• The Night Terrors are creations of the Nottmor, sent to haunt the dreams of the
local citizenry.

• The Roaming Nisse are alluring creatures who create fascinations (often illusory)
to lure the local citizenry into daydreams so that they can steal trinkets unnoticed.

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: The Dreamscape
Some of the game may take place within the Dreamscape, the shared unconsciousness 
of all sentient creatures. Most of the time, characters would only see fragments of the 
Dreamscape, what we think of as simply our dreams. As the Nottmor exerts more and 
more control over the Dreamscape, though, characters will discover consistent experi-
ences that the Nottmor is creating — and will likely even have shared experiences within 
the Dreamscape.

Typically, when in the Dreamscape, characters are not able to influence what they do in 
any meaningful way. However, as the Nottmor influences the Dreamscape, characters 
will be able to make decisions about what they do in the same way that they can 
make choices while awake. Her alteration of the fabric of the Dreamscape enables the 
characters’ wills to influence their own actions — but not the Dreamscape itself.

Night Terrors, extensions of the Nottmor, function in the same way as characters: they 
are able to control their own actions while in the Dreamscape. Whereas characters will 
return to reality when they awaken, Night Terrors cannot enter the waking world until 
they can trap a human in the Dreamscape. To make matters worse, the presence of the 
Nottmor in the Dreamscape has changed the typical rules of dreams — that when you 
are badly hurt in a dream, you awaken unharmed. Her presence is causing people who 
are injured in the Dreamscape to awaken with those injuries in real life.

The Nottmor itself has not found a way to escape into the world, but if she can trap a 
dreamer with powerful enough magic, she may be able to. Lucid Dreamers are a favor-
ite target of hers, but they alone are not enough. A dreamwalker, a shaman, or a human 
with an enhanced ability to dream lucidly might do the trick, though…

PAGE 92



Rule Addition: Lucid Dreamer
All teens and adults can take the following strength as one of their two selected 
strengths: “Lucid Dreamer: Spend two Adversity Tokens to exert control over the 
Dreamscape for the duration of the current dream. After spending Adversity Tokens, 
you are able to summon inanimate objects to your possession and disobey the laws of 
physics while dreaming.”

Rule Addition: Sleep Deprivation
If a character goes without sleep, there will be negative effects, based upon the number 
of days they have gone without sleep and whether or not they fail a Grit check. Each 
day that a character goes without sleep, they automatically advance one day along the 
Sleep Deprivation track. Then, they must make a Grit check. A failed Grit check means 
that they advance one additional day along the Sleep Deprivation track. Effects along 
the track are cumulative. It is assumed that characters are consuming caffeine or other 
stimulants in order to remain awake, so such drugs will not alleviate these effects. When 
characters do fall asleep, stat checks made in the Dreamscape are without penalty.

• Day 1: Get -2 to all stat checks, including Planned Actions.
• Day 2: Unable to take Planned Actions.
• Day 3: Any time you are not in motion, there is a 20% that you enter a microsleep

(two to 30 seconds of unconsciousness followed by five minutes of disorientation,
meaning that you automatically fail any stat check during that time). If you are not
consuming caffeine or other stimulants every few hours, immediately jump to Day 6.
At this point, you are having trouble keeping a grip on reality, so the effects of
“A Bleeding Reality” (see below) apply whenever you enter a microsleep.

• Day 4: Microsleeps automatically occur any time you are not in motion.
• Day 5: Automatically fail any stat checks.
• Day 6: Involuntarily fall asleep equal to, at minimum, four hours per day (not includ-

ing failed Grit checks) that you were awake. You cannot be awakened during this
time. If left to sleep on your own, you will sleep for eight hours per day that you
were awake, up to 24 hours.

After reaching Day 1 or beyond, each six hours of sleep a character gets reduces their 
position on the Sleep Deprivation track by one day.

Rule Addition: A Bleeding Reality
At some point there may be a scenario in which the Dreamscape and the waking world 
bleed into each other. This could occur when the Nottmor’s influence grows or when 
a character (either a player character or an NPC) reaches sleep deprivation levels such 
that they begin losing the ability to distinguish between the two planes of existence. 
When this happens, such characters may experience dream-like qualities in the the 
waking world, such as the abilities of the Lucid Dreamer and the Night Terrors causing 
physical harm to their corporeal body.

Other examples could include, but are not limited to, physical manifestations of 
fantastic creatures, plants, or landscapes that blend with what the character would 
recognize as the waking world. Some who have undergone profound sleep deprivation 
(Day 4 or Day 5) tell stories of seeing a doorway surrounded by enchanting flowers, 
which they reportedly felt might lead somewhere enticing — but such levels of sleep 
deprivation are so rare that accounts of the benefits or dangers of going through the 
door are too inconsistent to know for sure.

PAGE 93



Snow Days at Chanky Cheez - Snowsville, NY
by Jonathan Gilmour & Doug Levandowski

(Chanky Cheez suggested by Thomas Robert Beatman)

Content Warnings: claustrophobia, cults, dangerous strangers, freezing, human 
sacrifice, seasonal affective disorder

Setting information
Author’s Note: This is based on my childhood in northern New York and my love for 
weird themed places. – Jonathan

Many in northern New York say that there are just two seasons there: Winter and July. 
Nestled on the shore of the St. Lawrence River is the aptly named town of Snowsville. 
From late spring until early fall, the community is fully geared toward tending the 
fields and harvesting hay. The rest of the year, it’s a snowbound wasteland. On oc-
casion the snow will shut down travel for weeks at a time, but even when things are 
running smoothly, the drifts can get waist deep.

Wanting to give people another reason to visit, four years ago, locals constructed the 
Chanky Cheez Funtime Emporium, an arcade and pizzeria. For two years, it worked. 
People from far and wide flooded in as often as they could, and Chanky’s helped the 
economy boom.

After only two seasons, Chanky’s didn’t open up again when the snow cleared. The 
owner, who spent her winters in Florida, never came back and was never heard from 
again. Some nights, people swear they hear sounds coming from inside the aban-
doned building.

Now, there isn’t much to do in town. Sledding, sure. Winter hikes, sure — but the snow-
drifts can be dangerous. Every year, at least one person steps into a drift that formed 
over a gully in the earth and nearly freezes to death. These victims report seeing 
strange creatures crawling over them, pulling the heat from their body. But that has 
to be the hypothermia, right?

Setting Touchstones
Fargo (film), Five Nights at Freddy’s (video game series), The Shining (novel)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: Who was the last person to break into Chanky’s? What did they see?
• Individual, Shared: What rumor about the town interests you the most?
• Individual, Shared: What’s your favorite memory of Chanky’s that only you seem

to remember?

PAGE 94



• Individual, Shared: Why do you think Chanky’s was closed?
• Individual, Private: How much does the cold and darkness of the winter months

affect you psychologically?

Possible Points of Interest
• Chanky Cheez Funtime Emporium, an abandoned business on the edge of town.

It has been closed for two years, and the most popular dare in town is daring
someone to break in. Few have ever actually taken the dare, though.

• Farmer O’Dowl’s Hill, the best place for sledding in town... as long as O’Dowl isn’t
screaming at you to get off his hill.

• The Caves, a network of caverns just outside of town. There are impressive
stalactites and stalagmites, and rumor has it that the system of caves extends
underneath the town.

• Mac’s Tavern, the local bar. The drinks are strong, the pool tables are free, and the
jukebox is always on, making it a popular place for everyone over 21 in town.

• St. Eulalia of Mérida Church, the Catholic church in town. Overseen by Father
O’Brenner, the church is one of the few places to remain open in the winter months.

• Snowsville Academy, the local K–12 school where the teachers are sometimes
adequate, the food never is, and the students have to stay until July because of
snow days.

Possible NPCs
• Myrtle Eliot, local fortune teller. Purports to read tarot cards, but is actually just an

inveterate gossip.
• Caryn Fraser, former owner/operator of Chanky Cheez Funtime Emporium. Cur-

rently living in Florida and aware of the danger that the Funtime Emporium poses.
Might be coaxed back since she does have a conscience.

• Zbigniew Krzysztof, cranky old Polish immigrant who lives just outside of town and
distills vodka.

• Mac McKenzie, owner and bartender of Mac’s Tavern. She lost her husband 10 years
ago in a blizzard and now only has her work. Lives over the bar. If she’s awake, Mac’s
Tavern is open.

• Lester Nicholas, mayor of the town and all-around positive person. He has been an
advocate for tearing down the Funtime Emporium.

• Father Patrick O’Brenner, local priest and most loyal customer at Mac’s Tavern.
Except on Sundays, he is mostly quiet and keeps to himself, but the town still talks
about the bar fight that he ended the hard way five years ago.

• Reggie Plow, the snow plow driver. No one knows his real last name, but he drives
a heck of a snow plow. He’s a very strange person without any friends.

• Vanessa Tran, retired Secret Service agent. She’s tough as nails and takes no guff.
She’s also the crossing guard and brings cookies for the kids.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• The characters are dared to go into the Chanky Cheez Funtime Emporium. To prove

their mettle, they decide to take the dare.
• A friend, sibling, or child of one of the characters goes missing, either in the Fun-

time Emporium or in the snow.
• The characters are sledding with an NPC who disappears beneath the snow. They

hear screams for a moment, then an echo.
• During the worst snowstorm in the town’s history, people are freezing to death in

their homes. But the heat is on and there’s no sign of forced entry.
• The characters are trapped in a house when a blizzard unexpectedly causes

complete whiteout conditions in the town.
• Seasonal affective disorder always hits the town, but this year it seems like it’s even

worse. Some people have even shut themselves into their houses and are refusing
to come out because of the things that live beneath the snow.

PAGE 95



• The characters find a treasure map that directs them to the caves on the outskirts 
of town. It hints that they have to go there during a blizzard and that there’s a large 
treasure inside for those brave enough to venture in.

• During a blizzard so bad that even Reggie Plow can’t get the roads clear, people 
are returning from the edge of town saying that there’s some sort of strange force 
keeping people from leaving the town. 

Possible Threats
• A cult that believes it can drive the snow away and return Snowsville to an agrarian 

utopia (that never actually existed) through blood sacrifices.
• Weather itself, which is incredibly dangerous.

Possible Powered Characters
• An arctic fox that is able to communicate telepathically with one of the characters 

and knows how to defeat the imps.
• Polly Pizza, another animatronic creature from the Funtime Emporium that also 

came to life but is dedicated to preventing Chanky from hurting any other kids. 
Perhaps imbued with the spirit of a child that Chanky killed.

Possible Monsters
• Chanky Cheez, an animatronic block of cheese with a face. The past two years have 

not been kind to it, and its features are drooping and cracked. It is not yet able to 
leave the grounds of the Chanky Cheez Funtime Emporium. It believes that, by 
killing enough children, it can finally get out. Within that building, though, it is able 
to control machinery and doors.

• Small, imp-like creatures who pull hapless people below the snow and drain the 
warmth from their bodies. They’re able to burrow through snow and frozen dirt, 
and they use the network of caves to their advantage.

• A drifter who is able to control the snow and seems immune to the cold. He doesn’t 
seem to want anything other than to freeze and destroy.

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Cold Exposure
In Colorado, people are pretty used to the cold, especially this time of year. During the 
course of their adventure, though, they might find themselves exposed to the elements 
for long enough that they begin to suffer ill effects. Because the effects of exposure to 
cold weather depend greatly on what the characters are wearing and just how cold the 
weather actually is, it’s difficult to create a formula for effects of exposure.

In general, the longer characters stay out in the cold, the worse the effects will be. At 
first, they should suffer some slight penalty on stat checks. As hypothermia sets in, the 
penalties should become more extreme, especially for Brains and Charm checks, due to 
the confusion associated with hypothermia. When hypothermia gets worse, shivering 
becomes uncontrollable, and any stat checks involving physical action should be 
assumed to immediately fail. Severe hypothermia causes death, often after “paradoxical 
undressing” where hypothermia victims start to feel overheated because of the body’s 
response to changes in blood flow. For more information, Wikipedia has an informative 
entry on hypothermia.

PAGE 96



Nights at Garuda Lake - Garuda Lake, VT
by Anton Kromoff

Content Warnings: hospitalized children, human experimentation, mind control, 
teen drug use, violence against animals

Setting information
Welcome to the sleepy New England town of Garuda Lake, founded in 1640 by Jim 
Malford, who led a group of families to start a colony nestled between the foot of the 
Appalachian Mountains and Lake Garuda. Originally called Sagnasaw Grove, it was 
incorporated into the greater Miskatonic Valley in 1671 as Garuda Lake. The town’s 
current name is in honor of Lake Garuda, the lake that the Trappist monks of Our Lady 
of the Golden Light who arrived in 1666 credited for exceptional crops and longer 
than normal growing seasons.

The town has a thriving tech firm as well as a fairly lucrative fishing community. How-
ever, it is most known for its lake house community in the summer and its snow lodge 
community in the winter.

The locals are split between “Old Town” — mostly older, turn-of-the-century houses 
and small local businesses — and “Royal Meadows,” a modern development commu-
nity with a shopping district, tech center, modern children’s hospital and research 
facility, and the most up-to-date modern conveniences.

Setting Touchstones
The Andy Griffith Show (TV series), The Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft (book), The 
Goonies (film), Harrow County (comic series), It (novel), The Sandlot (film), Stranger 
Things (Netflix series), The Weird Company (book)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: What are some local organizations that are planning events during the

current season?
• Individual, Shared: What rumors about the town interest you the most?
• Individual, Shared or Private: Which side of the town are you from — Old Town or

Royal Meadows?
• Individual, Private: How do you feel about the other side of town?
• Individual, Private: How do you feel about the town as a whole? Do you want to

escape to something new, or are you happy with the life you have?

PAGE 97



Possible Points of Interest
For a map of the surrounding area, visit huntersbooks.com/downloads-kidsonbikes.
Lighthearted

• Amberlock Forest, which sits to the east of town. Many Scout Troops, mountain
bikers, and weekend wanderers enjoy the trails and campgrounds.

• Royal Meadows Mega Mall, built by renovating the old steel mill. It has two arcades,
a food court, and plenty of hidden passages to explore.

Serious
• The Tiller Company, a tech firm that runs the Royal Meadows community. Owned by

Frances J. Tiller, the company has been developing many technologies to advance
mass communication — through phone signals, computer-aided digital messaging
services, and even advanced light-based communication capable of creating a hive
mind.

• Wilford Graveyard, which sits on the dividing line between Old Town and Royal
Meadows. It’s rumored to sit over a network of caves that feed out into Garuda
Lake. For decades, high school kids have told stories of bodies washing up on the
shores of the lake covered in gnaw marks.

Either
• Sagnasaw Forest, to the north of the town. It provides hunting grounds for out-of-

towners vacationing at one of the ski lodges on Sharp-Top Mountain.
• Calaveras Island, where local folklore says that you can find ancient ruins of strange

stone idols.
• The Capricorn, a steam-powered paddleboat that takes locals and tourists on fishing

tours, year round.
• Our Lady of the Golden Light Medical Center and Children’s Hospital, the local hos-

pital in the new part of town. It has recently seen the addition of an extended-stay
center, a neurological center, and full pharmaceutical R&D on the premises. It has
drawn a surprisingly large and surprisingly reclusive staff, apparently from all over
the world.

• Our Lady of the Golden Light Private Academy, the school that the children who
live in the new part of town typically attend, especially if their parents work for the
Tiller Company. Their team, the Bruising Bees, are all incredibly gifted athletes.

Possible NPCs
• Goran Hill, a local artist who found success early on with comics about ghouls. It

is rumored that he drew inspiration from the local folklore about the network of
caves under the Wilford Graveyard. Although he is hardly seen outside his gated
mountainside mansion, those who have crossed his path say he is quite friendly and
happy to chat about his work and the inspirations for it.

• Thadius Hingle, captain of the paddleboat Capricorn. Thadius has been living in
Garuda Lake all his life and is a font of knowledge about folklore, rumors, and the
mysteries of the lake — although separating truth from tall tale can be difficult.

• Jacob and Avery Lambstrad, who breathed new life back into the fishing commu-
nity that most of the inhabitants of the old part of town call home.

• Frances J. Tiller, the daughter of Miriam B. Sagnasaw and a descendant of one
of the original families who founded the town. Unlike her mother, Miriam the
skin cream mogul, Frances has dedicated the majority of her professional life to
cultivating a thriving community of well educated, highly motivated, forward- 
thinking technophiles.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• There have always been rumors that Amberlock Forest is “witch haunted.” However,

most of these rumors are spread by those under the age of 14. It seems anyone
older simply forgets about the stories of the Whitefaced Watchers and their
brooms made of bone — even after they are reminded by children who swear they
have seen them coast along the surface of Garuda Lake when the moon is full.

PAGE 98



• The rumors of a performance-enhancing drug known as “Royal Jelly” have been
greatly downplayed by both state and local papers, even after the small rash of
drug-related incidents involving people from Royal Meadows. Folks from the
Bruising Bees sports community were admitted to the local hospital with strange,
hive-like holes dotting their skin.

• Many hunters frequent the Sagnasaw Forest. However, there are rumors of wolf
animals deep in the Sagnasaw that fear no man and never forget slights perpetrated
in their snow-dusted woods.

• At the Children’s Hospital, the world-renowned staff has gathered to explore the
old growth Sagnasaw Forest to seek undiscovered plants and animals that may
have medical applications. Occasionally, members of the exploratory groups go
missing and are never found again.

Possible Threats
• The hive-mind adult community of Royal Meadows suddenly begins to work in

unison. Half the town is now under the control of a shadowy Queen Bee figure.
• Jacob and Avery Lambstrad have breathed life back into the fishing community.

However, they have done this through dark deals with otherworldly beings who call
the islands of Garuda Lake home — and such deals come with a price.

• A group of wealthy businessmen have come to town to hunt local game, although
what they are actually after are the less well known — and far more supernatural —
beings that live in Sagnasaw Forest.

Possible Powered Characters
• A homeless man who roams the Amberlock Forest carving strange symbols into

trees — symbols that resemble the runes found on the stone structures dotting the
islands of Garuda Lake. He is fascinated by music.

• A child from the Children’s Hospital who was experimented on and now has a
honeycomb-like tattoo on his face and possesses the ability to influence bees. If the
characters befriend this child, they’ll be a powerful ally. But if they mirror the cruelty
shown by the hospital’s doctors, it could go very poorly.

• Old Luca, the major draw to the Nature Walk Living Museum. Old Luca is an albino
timber wolf, a strange sight to see in these parts. Many stop for a picture with
the lovable old wolf, who watches visitors inquisitively and seems to respond with
grunts and yips when asked questions. But no one, not even the local papers, seems
to be able to capture a good photo of Old Luca; they always come out blurry.

Possible Monsters
• Feral ghouls that live in the tunnels under Wilford Graveyard and make Calaveras

Island their home.
• Strange, wolf-like creatures that roam the Sagnasaw Forest and never forget tres-

passes against them.
• The Whitefaced Watchers, a group of ancient witches. They call the Amberlock

Forest home and ride on bone broomsticks. Dressed in all black except for faces as
pale as moonlight, they are said to play haunting melodies on bone instruments to
lure children away to the woods. Though all children under 14 seem to know them,
most people older than that dismiss any such stories — or forget them altogether
within minutes of hearing them.

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Hive Mind
In the Royal Meadows community, there are myriad technological and supernatural 
happenings. A large majority of the town who spends prolonged amounts of time 
orking or playing at the various Royal Meadows properties (Private School, Mega Mall, 
Golf Course, Children’s Hospital) may be subjected to the Hive Mind, which can be 
either beneficial or disastrous.

PAGE 99



While it may give some players insight into the moods and feelings of other members of 
the community, it can also lead to players being caught up in the mob mentality of the 
“hive.” It would be beneficial for the DM to weigh both the pros and cons of this before 
allowing a player character to be engage with the Hive Mind.

Children and teens will not be as affected, as the primary focus of the Hive Mind is 
adults. The difference in how these groups are affected is noticeable.

When engaging with the Hive Mind, make a Charm check as a Snap Decision. You may 
spend Adversity Tokens as normal on this roll.

Child / Teen Adult
Charm check 20: You understand the thought 20: You understand the thought 
results when process and motivations of the process and motivations of the 
engaging with person you are focused on. person you are focused on. 
the Hive Mind.

17-19: You understand the basic 17-19: You have a rough idea of the 
idea of the thoughts and feelings basic emotions of the person you 
of the person you are focused on. are focused on. 

13-16: You have a rough idea of 13-16: You get a faint idea of two 
the basic emotions of the person goals that may be driving the per-
you are focused on. son you are focused on. 

10-12: You get a faint idea of two 10-12: You have a headache and 
goals that may be driving the per- gain no information from the en-
son you are focused on. counter. 

7-9: You have a headache and 5-9: You feel compelled to agree
gain no information from the and see the side of the person you
encounter. are focused on.

4-6: You feel compelled to agree 3-4: You feel overwhelmed by a
and see the side of the person you deep desire to help fulfill whatever
are focused on. goal is desired by the person you

are focused on.
2-3: You feel overwhelmed by a
deep desire to help fulfill whatever 1-2: You become part of the Hive
goal is desired by the person you Mind and are in the control of the
are focused on. DM until an event occurs to break

you free.
1: You become part of the Hive 
Mind and are in the control of the 
DM until an event occurs to break 
you free.

It is the GM’s call when an event occurs to break a player free from the more disastrous 
Hive Mind effects. A few possible ways to break free from the Hive Mind are being 
powerfully reminded of a friendship, eating a favorite food, seeing a truly cherished 
belonging, and being taken far enough away from the source of the Hive Mind to break 
the connection.

PAGE 100



Talkeetna of Troubles - Talkeetna, AK
by Kevin Kulp

Content Warnings: bullying, claustrophobia, freezing, human sacrifice, wilderness 
survival

Setting information
When you think of Talkeetna, Alaska (which is a real place without any Bigfoot, or 
so we’re told; we’ve taken some liberties describing it here), think isolation. Think 
gorgeous natural beauty, harsh and unforgiving weather, and a tiny, close-knit 
population of locals, kept afloat mostly by tourism. Summers are easy, but it’s hard 
not to be superstitious when the snow falls deep into the long night, and flickering 
green auroras light the sky overhead.

Talkeetna is not a large town. It tried to be, once; at the turn of the 20th century there 
were almost a thousand people living here, building the Alaska Railroad and mining 
for gold. But the Great War came, the railroad was completed, the gold ran out, and 
empty homes and abandoned factories were left to molder in the long summer days 
and frigid winter nights.

The town of Talkeetna is nestled 114 miles north of Anchorage, at the confluence of the 
Susitna, Chulitna, and Talkeetna Rivers. It may have been founded in 1916 — and three 
of the original buildings are still in use today, including the Talkeetna Roadhouse, 
Nagley’s General Store, and the Fairview Inn — but there used to be an Athabascan 
village here long before the 1905 gold rush. There’s history here that most people 
have forgotten. The river is huge, the forest is vast, and the town is isolated; if secrets 
got left behind, they may well be hidden there still.

The town of Cicely in the TV series Northern Exposure is reputedly patterned after 
Talkeetna, and until recently Talkeetna was famous for having a cat named Stubbs 
as its unofficial mayor. Nowadays, most of the work in Talkeetna comes from fishing, 
hunting, hiking, skiing, and rafting. The town gets used as a base for ascents of Denali 
(Mt. McKinley), so there’s more than your average number of artists and crafters. 

But except for tourist skiers, when winter comes the town empties out and turns in on 
itself. It’s easy to go a little stir-crazy when the temperature drops to zero degrees and 
the snow begins to pile up. Almost makes you long for an adventure.

Setting Touchstones
The Goonies (film), Northern Exposure (TV series), Stand by Me (film)

PAGE 101



Alternate Town Creation Questions
Summer

• Group: What are the best activities in town during the summer?
• Individual, Shared: It’s light almost all night long. What time do your parents make

you come home?
• Individual, Shared: There are lots of tourists in the summer, and not all are polite. Do

they feel like intruders, or do you welcome them?
• Individual, Shared: What’s the strangest thing you’ve ever run across during the

summer?
• Individual, Shared or Private: Ever gotten lost in the woods? What happened?
• Individual, Private: Do your parents keep track of what you’re up to?

Winter
• Group: What do people do to keep from getting cabin fever in the winter?
• Group: What’s the local school like?
• Individual, Shared: How deep are your family’s roots in Talkeetna?
• Individual, Shared or Private: How do you feel about the snow?
• Individual, Shared or Private: How do the long winter nights and brutally cold days

affect you?
• Individual, Private: What do you think those strange lights were that you saw in the

woods last winter?

Possible Points of Interest
Lighthearted

• Moose Dropping Festival, which ran from ’72 to ’09, when it finally brought in too
many drunk tourists. Numbered moose droppings were dropped from a crane, and
there were festivities to match!

• Nagley’s General Store, founded in 1921 by Horace Nagley and in operation ever
since, thought the name was changed to B&K Trading Post for 40 years or so. If you
need a snack, a shelter, or a great source of gossip, this is the place to go.

Serious
• Talkeetna Historical Society, a place to find information that no one alive but Ezekiel

Washington might know. Their trove of archived photos and histories might give
you the (horrifying) clue you need.

• The Ranger Station, where you go to learn about mountaineering, prepare for
climbing Denali, or report children lost in the woods.

Either
• Deep woods which surround the town. The woods are peppered with deep forest

lakes. You’ll find rotting cars from the 1920s, forgotten buildings, and long-aban-
doned roads — if you know where to look.

• Three rivers, merging into one in the town of Talkeetna. In summer, great fishing
and swimming spots abound. Frozen in winter and great for skating, hockey, and
frenzied flights toward safety while something horrible pursues you.

• Islands in all three rivers, which rise or fall with the river levels. They’re a lot easier to
access in winter or late summer than during the spring thaw. There are secrets
buried on those islands — hopefully, you won’t be buried there with them.

Possible NPCs
• Wes Dansky, an obsessive cryptid seeker. He’s convinced that Bigfoot is out there.

He even claims to have seen it, although he says his camera jammed that day so he
never got a decent photo. Wes plans to open a Bigfoot museum in town, if he can
ever find enough time when he isn’t scouring the woods.

• Don Holliday, the friendly local entrepreneur who owns “Holiday Wonders.” Don
organizes and sends tourists off on all the best hikes, kayak trips, or ski outings.
Rumor has it that not all those out-of-towners actually come back, and search
teams have never found a single body. Don must feel awful about it.

PAGE 102



• Billy & Martha Kirby, the brother-and-sister bullies whose gang delights in ruining
anything that you and your friends love. You’re not sure why they hate you so much,
but Billy boasts that his father is really important in some special government
laboratory, so maybe he thinks he’s special. He’s lying, though; if there was a
government lab around here, you’d have heard of it.

• Mrs. Pensever, who lives in the falling-down “witch house” down the lane. They
say she’s rich — something to do with old gold claims — but you couldn’t tell from
looking at her. Don’t call her that nickname (you know the one) and don’t go into
her yard for a lost baseball. Everyone knows what happened to the last kid who did.

• The River Girl, who you only see up by the Susitna River before dawn. You’d guess
she’s from one of the local Native American families. She says her parents don’t
really like people, and she still hasn’t told you her name. She vanishes pretty fast if
you startle her, though, and no one in town has ever heard of her — or her family.

• Maggie Tashima, the town librarian. She’s new to town, but one of the nicest people
you’ve ever met, and she’s even more curious that you are.

• Ezekiel Washington, a former railroader who is so old he claims to have lived in
Talkeetna before it was even a town. As a child he must have explored the same
forest paths that you do now. Ask him how old he is, though, and he gives a tooth-
less grin before telling you he’s been alive forever. You’re not sure if he’s kidding.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• That sure is a huge and ancient forest surrounding the town, and things live out

there. Ancient things. Things that demand propitiation, and probably blood. The
Athabascans knew that once, but people nowadays have forgotten. Every time a
tourist goes missing, those things may be to blame — but they’re getting bolder,
hungrier, and now they want worship as well.

• Those UFO sightings last year: man-made, natural phenomena, or something else?
If they touched down somewhere, there should be some sign.

• The Alaska Railroad once owned now-rotting and falling-down warehouses in
Talkeetna, and it’s said the ghosts of those killed on the rails find their way back. In
the dead of winter, when the aurora lights up the sky and the wind howls, there’s a
legend of a ghost train that brings all those lost souls back to Hell… unless the whole
ghost train thing is a fake, designed to scare people away from an illegal gold mine.

• There are lights shining from under the river whenever there’s strange and unex-
pected fog. Is something down there? If so, is it a natural phenomena, something
supernatural, a river cryptid, or technological trickery — and why?

• The gold rush went through Talkeetna back near the turn of the century, and
rumors still abound of the lost Talkeetna strike. Supposedly a prospector found a
shockingly rich vein before someone killed him, and anyone who knew the location
of the haunted mine has long since died. What if that story is real, someone is looking
for it by hunting up old diaries, and you need to find it before they do?

• For a place that doesn’t see too many visitors, there is a surprising number of
featureless vans and government cars filled with soldiers and scientists that drive
north through town, and then completely disappear. Where do they go, and what
are those people doing?

• A bunch of nearly identical out-of-town salesmen have arrived to buy up busi-
nesses and houses in town, and the locals they meet with are acting strangely. The
locals are talking monotonously and smiling blandly, and none of them — not even
Mrs. Pensever — are getting mad. What’s going on, and who’s behind it?

Possible Threats
• A cryptid-hunting TV show comes to town to hunt Bigfoot, setting up Wes Dansky

(and Talkeetna) to look like idiots in front of the whole country.
• Dr. Kirby’s hidden government lab is doing terrible things out in the forest, and

mysterious accidents befall anyone who suspects what’s going on.

PAGE 103



• Other people as old as Ezekiel Washington come to town to claim him — and he 
turns out to be much, much older than you thought.

• The things in the forest aren’t content with Don Holliday’s tribute, and they start 
recruiting worshipers in town. The cult plans sacrifices, starting with the people 
they don’t like... such as the new librarian.

• Ghost trains don’t come to Talkeetna by coincidence! There’s a portal to the afterlife 
near here, and someone has accidentally done something horrible to open it.

• UFOs are real, and alien flora and fauna are colonizing the forest. The town of 
Talkeetna is next.

Possible Powered Characters
• A young Bigfoot, fascinated by humanity.
• A nature spirit (either snow, forest, or river) with a debt of vengeance to pay.
• An ancient prospector’s ghost who can possess others until exposed to sunlight.
• A child who attracts elemental snow spirits, creating the worst winter anyone in 

Talkeetna can remember.
• The genetically mutated shell of a missing child who has somehow escaped Dr. 

Kirby’s secret government lab.
• An alien explorer with very murky motives.

Possible Monsters
• A sentient and intelligent wolfpack, doing the will of an honest-to-gosh werewolf 

that is too ancient to act for itself.
• A clan of Bigfoot, most of whom delight in taunting Wes Dansky.
• A river spirit whose power ebbs and flows with the spring floods, and who’s falling 

in love with someone from town — maybe even one of the gang?
• An ancient, evil tree with the slow sentience of all nature, determined to wipe the 

flesh-puppets off its land.
• The ghost of a young girl murdered between the walls of a falling-down house, 

whose murder has never been solved.
• Summer means swarms of biting black flies and mosquitoes. So why are the swarms 

taking humanoid shapes, and why does their high-pitched buzzing sound almost 
like human speech?

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Cold Exposure
In Alaska, people are pretty used to the cold. During the course of their adventure, 
though, characters might find themselves exposed to the elements for long enough 
that they begin to suffer ill effects. Because the effects of exposure to cold weather 
depend greatly on what the characters are wearing and just how cold the weather 
actually is, it’s difficult to create a formula for effects of exposure.

In general, the longer characters stay out in the cold, the worse the effects will be. At 
first, they should suffer some slight penalty on stat checks. As hypothermia sets in, the 
penalties should become more extreme, especially for Brains and Charm checks, due to 
the confusion associated with hypothermia. When hypothermia gets worse, shivering 
becomes uncontrollable, and any stat checks involving physical action should be 
assumed to immediately fail. Severe hypothermia causes death, often after “paradoxical 
undressing” where hypothermia victims start to feel overheated because of the body’s 
response to changes in blood flow. For more information, Wikipedia has an informative 
entry on hypothermia.

PAGE 104



Shadows From Sharon Hollow - Sharon Hollow, MI
by Amanda Hamon Kunz

Content Warnings: horror, poverty, psychological possession, wilderness survival

Setting information
When Detroit’s automotive industry was flourishing, riches flowed like black gold into 
the surrounding rural hills. There, wealthy executives built lavish woodland retreats 
amid the scrappier outposts of the working class. But by the 1990s, the well began to 
run dry. Auto sales dropped, workers struggled to keep their jobs, and the executives 
retreated from their second homes.
 
An hour west of Detroit, Sharon Hollow is not so much a town as a long expanse of 
rural road. For generations, families have lived quiet lives here, working in the auto 
plants and increasingly turning to hunting and scrapping to get by. Every year, more 
skeletons are added to the graveyard of wealthy playgrounds, including empty storage 
sheds stripped of their toys and lake yachts abandoned on empty lots. Perhaps most 
notorious is a bizarre old treehouse known only as the Fort. It’s nestled deep in the 
woods and bigger than some single-family homes.
 
Rumors of strange happenings have always permeated Sharon Hollow. Of late, though, 
the locals have become eerily hushed, and some seem to be only shadows of their 
normal selves. Could be that it’s just a harsh winter. Or perhaps the stories of evil lurking 
in the Fort are true and something sinister threatens Sharon Hollow.

Setting Touchstones
The Conjuring (film), The Ring (film), Stranger Things (Netflix series)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: What recent odd weather event (a blizzard, an ice storm, an off-season 

tornado) has Sharon Hollow on edge?
• Individual, Shared: What does your character think about the rumors that the 

woods and the Fort are bad luck?
• Individual, Shared: Where is your character’s favorite spot to explore in or around 

Sharon Hollow? 
• Individual, Private: How is your character’s family getting by during these tough 

economic times? 
• Individual, Private: How does your character feel about the wealthy who used to 

flood into Sharon Hollow and about those who still live or visit here?

PAGE 105



Possible Points of Interest
• The Fort, a massive treehouse next to a pond. Located nearly a mile off the main 

road, this was once a play area for a wealthy. It’s been abandoned for a decade, 
and locals like to blame the area’s misfortune on the supposed bad luck of the 
Fort and the woods around it.

• The surrounding woods, a dense forest that dots both sides of Sharon Hollow. But 
the woods around the Fort are especially primeval and dangerous.

• Mitzi’s Hardware, the general store in Sharon Hollow. The store stocks basic food-
stuffs, tools, and gear for hunting and fishing. Run by Marge and Mitzi Frantz.

• Poland’s Junkyard, the property of the old hermit. His lot is covered in naked car 
frames, old trailers, and piles of other scrap, with an ugly “Keep Out!” sign posted 
along its fence.

• The old quarry, a huge hole in the ground lined with sharp limestone. Filled with 
rainwater in the summer, the old quarry is frozen solid in the winter.

• Chip Crick, the creek that flows alongside a portion of Sharon Hollow and de-
scends into a gorge with a treacherous hiking trail just east of the Surrounding 
Woods. The best hunting grounds are here, everyone agrees.

• The abandoned well, just behind Poland’s Junkyard. The well is empty, uncovered, 
and on an empty lot next to a junked speedboat.

Possible NPCs
• Marge Frantz, one of the owners of Mitzi’s Hardware. She has been known to 

chase off hooligans and troublemaking out-of-towners with a meaningful pump 
of her shotgun. Typically she’s gruff and taciturn, but she adores discussing 
popular characters on reality television.

• Mitzi Frantz, one of the owners of Mitzi’s Hardware, the store that her parents 
named after her when she was a child. She’s an affable businesswoman and can 
sell practically anything to anyone.

• Connor Gershman, a young man from an affluent suburb who now lives here full 
time. Rumor is he’s building something weird in his backyard. Husband to Jessie.

• Jessie Gershman, a young woman from an affluent suburb. She’s incredibly cheer-
ful and often takes long nature walks in the surrounding woods. Wife to Connor.

• Walt Herman, President of Sharon Hollow Hunters, a local club. He hunts with a 
bow, is fond of conspiracy theories, and is convinced the Fort is haunted. 

• Poland, a hermit who never leaves his junkyard-like property, but happily sells 
most anything to visitors. Few locals have seen him. Rumors about his appear-
ance and habits are wild.

• Jake Stelzer, a local kid who lives with his grandmother and delivers newspapers 
along Sharon Hollow. Loves telling fantastic stories about the woods.

• Heather Underwood, a local kid and notorious hoodlum. Likes to break into 
empty buildings and explore, but rarely steals anything.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• Several locals have started acting strangely disinterested in daily life, as if all emotion 

were drained out of them. What’s more, these people seem to have contracted 
some sort of disease that’s blackening the veins in their eyes and hands. Those who 
have seen a doctor say it’s just a vitamin deficiency thanks to the hard winter, but 
Jessie Gershman and Jake Stelzer are convinced that something sinister is lurking 
in the woods and afflicting these folks. They know that you know this area like the 
back of your hand, and they ask you to investigate.

• Mitzi bemoans the strangely aggressive vandals who have broken into her hard-
ware store three times in the past month. Though Marge scared them off each time, 
Mitzi worries that someone will soon get hurt. The vandals don’t steal anything, 
but simply use charcoal bricks to scrawl “It’s Coming” all over the store’s walls. 
She assumes the culprits are kids and asks you to discreetly find out who’s behind 
the break-ins and convince them to stop their pranks. As a reward, she offers each 
of you anything in her store.

PAGE 106



• Every full moon, curious green-and-purple lights flicker along Chip Crick’s hiking 
trail toward the Fort. The local hunters say it’s some sort of invasive firefly species, 
but Heather Underwood is convinced it’s evidence of something valuable that an 
out-of-towner (or perhaps the Gershmans) is hiding away. She asks you to come 
with her to check it out.

Possible Threats
• A group of local hunters who have decided that kids and out-of-towners skulking 

about the woods are giving Sharon Hollow a bad reputation and are menacing 
people in the wilderness. 

• A group of local ghost seekers who have little attention for safety or private 
property. They infiltrate abandoned places to look for ghosts, often causing major 
property damage — or worse.

Possible Powered Characters
• A wanderer found dazed and incoherent in the woods. She looks familiar, but no 

one can place who she is. She says she’s been living in the Fort for years. 
• A tracker who lives in the woods, though no one has ever heard of him. He lives 

with a pack of shadowy wolves who seem to understand his every word. 
• A ragged woman who can only venture a few hundred feet from the pond beside 

the Fort. When she touches its waters, she turns into a bluegill and swims off.

PAGE 107



Possible Monsters
• Shadow tentacles that extend from the Fort and pull anyone nearby inside.
• A pulsing portal inside the Fort. Destroy it and stop the menace to the surrounding 

woods (see Rule Addition: Shadows Within for more).
• An inky vampire deer in the surrounding woods. It’s 10 feet tall and ethereal.
• Temporarily besotted locals, driven mad by the shadows within (see the Rule 

Addition: Shadows Within for more).

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Shadows Within
The shadowy powers at the heart of the Fort are slowly leaching into the people 
and places around it. As they explore the surrounding woods, there is an increasing 
chance that the characters absorb some of this mysterious power themselves, albeit 
temporarily. 

For each day that a character spends in the woods surrounding the Fort, there is a 50 
percent chance that they gain a one-time-use power card. Triggering this 50 percent 
chance is cumulative; each time a character has spent a total of 12 hours in the woods, 
the GM rolls a d20. On a result of 1-10, nothing happens. On a result of 11-20, the 
character temporarily gains a power. Depending on how the game elapses, there is a 
good chance that the characters will all gain temporary powers at least once.

When a character gains a power, the GM chooses a power card and gives it to 
someone sitting next to the player controlling the temporarily powered character. The 
player holding the power card cannot reveal its details to anyone, and not even her 
own character knows the power’s details. Similarly, the temporarily powered character 
doesn’t know the details of their own newfound power, only that they feels somehow 
different and strange. A minor but noticeable physical change happens to them: the 
veins in the character’s hands might turn black as obsidian, their breath might come 
in smoky exhales, or their shadow might become sharp and distorted. Regardless, it’s 
obvious that something’s up.

At any point while the characters are exploring Sharon Hollow, a player holding 
another character’s power card may encourage the affected character to use 
their power. This represents the encouraging character’s intuition about how their 
compatriot has been affected in the woods. While the encouraging character should 
not describe exactly what the power might do, that player should encourage their ally 
to use their strange new power only when it would help the group! 

If the affected character agrees, that character uses their power and the card is 
revealed to the group. The GM decides how that power is resolved in the events of 
the game. The affected character then loses their power. If that character later gains 
another power from spending time in the woods, it’s up to the GM whether they 
regain their previous power or is afflicted with a new one — and the characters are 
left guessing! 

PAGE 108



Pointing Pleasantly - Point Pleasant, NJ
by Doug Levandowski

Content Warnings: bullying, drowning, human experimentation, mind control, 
mob violence

Setting information
Author’s Note: Although Point Pleasant is a real location, I’ve taken some liberties with 
what’s actually there. – Doug
 
Point Pleasant can serve as a setting for lighthearted adventures during the summer-
time or more serious, existential adventures during the off-season.

Right on the Jersey Shore, a convenient train ride away from New York City, is Point 
Pleasant, a vacation hotspot for both city dwellers and inland New Jerseyites — even 
the occasional Pennsylvanian — though they usually go to Long Beach Island. During 
the summer, Point Pleasant is nearly constantly thrumming, and the Ferris wheel is 
always turning, even at night. It offers both the beach, which is the main attraction, 
and the bay, which is where the more rebellious kids hang out.
 
But after Labor Day, the off-season begins and the population drops to less than 30 
percent. For the families who work in the tourism industry, the other nine months are 
slow. Sure, the town needs to keep going. There’s the small elementary school or the 
combined middle and high school. Or, there’s the grocery store and the library — but 
there’s not enough work for the folks in town during the off-season.
 
For the kids who live in the area, there isn’t much to do, either. Younger kids will often 
invent crazy stories about what they see in the ocean, what lives in the less developed 
parts of the island, or why the bay sometimes seems to be whispering. Teenagers will 
usually split their time between figuring out how to get out once they graduate high 
school and sneaking into houses to cause trouble.

Setting Touchstones 
Creature From the Black Lagoon (film), Gravity Falls (TV series),
The X-Files (TV series)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
Off-season

• Group: What are some notable organizations that remain in operation during the 
off-season?

• Individual, Shared: What rumor about the town interests you the most?
• Individual, Shared: What does your character do during the off-season?

PAGE 109



• Individual, Shared or Private: How does your character feel about the out-of-
towners (the “Bennies”) who are here only in the summer?

• Individual, Private: How does the beach impact your life?
• Individual, Private: How do you feel about the slower pace in the off-season? 

Where are you on the spectrum of being happy about a break or bored by it?
Summer

• Group: What are some notable organizations most active during the summer?
• Individual, Shared: What is the biggest difference between life in the summer and 

the life you lead during the other nine months of the year?
• Individual, Shared: What rumor about the town interests you the most?
• Individual, Shared: What’s your favorite activity that Point Pleasant offers during 

this time of year?
• Individual, Shared or Private: How do you feel about the townies who are there 

year round — or about the out-of-towners (the “Bennies”), if you’re a townie?
• Individual, Private: How does the ocean impact your life?

Possible Points of Interest
Lighthearted

• The Curious Shelf, the local oddity shop on the boardwalk that’s open year round 
and run by Mister Mystery.

• SKEE-BALL!!!! OPEN YEAR ROUND!!!!
• The forests a few miles out of town, past the rich people’s houses.

Serious
• The Bennies’ houses by the ocean, which are great places to sneak into, especially 

if a summer friend “loses” their key.
• The secret meeting place of the cult operating behind the scenes year round in 

Point Pleasant.
• The platform under the Bay Bridge (which connects the island and the mainland).

Either
• The beach (of course).
• The Woods, which are deep, dark, and mysterious (of course).
• Babbling Point, a place where many locals have insisted they’ve heard the bay 

whispering.
• The jetty that’s so much longer than all of the other ones. People who venture all 

the way out insist has a hollow rock at the end of it.
• The mysterious island that seems to have appeared off the coast. Some people 

claim to have swam to the island, but give conflicting answers about what’s there 
(because no one who has actually gone there has ever returned).

Possible NPCs
• Dr. Michelle Cartwright, a benevolent or malevolent scientist who moved to the 

town after she retired from her work at some shadowy government agency. 
Now, she teaches at the high school, but she’s still conducting some experiments. 
Perhaps they’re for the good of the town. Perhaps they’re harming the townies.

• Petra Ivanovitch, the old fisherwoman who lives by the bay. She has lived in town 
for as long as anyone can remember, even the adults.

• Beth Kramer, the town sheriff who is very anti-Benny — and doesn’t like any out-
siders, for that matter. She lets her son Tommy, an unrepentant bully, get away 
with literally anything.

• Mister Mystery, the owner and operator of the Curious Shelf, the local oddity 
shop. His real name is Stanley Gerkin. Most townies think he’s an insane huckster, 
but the kids seem to like his shop.

• John Paulson, mayor of the town. An endlessly upbeat citizen, Mayor Paulson is a 
member of nearly all local organizations. He owns the only grocery store in town.

• Stacy Paulson, the mayor’s wife. She is even more upbeat than her husband. She’s 
part of every women’s group in the town — and perhaps some secret ones. But 
how can she be so happy all of the time?

PAGE 110



• Emerson Thoreau, a recluse who lives near the bay, a few miles into the forest. 
Everyone calls him Emerson, but his real name is unknown. He happily welcomes 
visitors, so long as they don’t stay the night.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• Mister Mystery gives you a book that he says can help you find all kinds of neat stuff 

hidden in the woods. All he asks in exchange is that you get a few for him. 
• A surprisingly large group of the Bennies suddenly decide to stay at Point Pleasant 

all year, but they’ve been dodgy about exactly why they’re staying.
• People swimming in the bay have been suddenly feeling drawn to stay underwater 

longer and longer, sometimes to the point of passing out. When they wake up, they 
don’t know why they did it, but they don’t want to go in the water anymore.

• Some swimmers have reported seeing a giant monster, like the Loch Ness Monster, 
in the ocean — but always from a distance. One teen swears that he saw it not 
moving one day, got close to it, and heard it clanking before it swam away...

• Dr. Cartwright has seemed erratic in class recently. She has been out late searching 
for an experiment gone missing — perhaps one that she doesn’t want the town to 
discover, perhaps one that she wants to protect the town from.

• Some of the townie teens, normally rebellious, have come back preppy and carry-
ing on about “pointing Point Pleasant in a pleasant direction.” Perhaps your friend, 
sibling, or child is one of them.

Possible Threats
• A group of townies who deeply resent the Bennies. Sometimes that resentment 

bubbles over to the point of violence.
• A group of shadowy developers who want to buy up real estate and raze many 

of the locals’ houses... and the townies who are inexplicably working with them.
• A secret organization that knows the secrets of the town and is quite resistant to 

anyone finding out about them, or is working to summon something ancient and 
powerful from the ocean — or both.

Possible Powered Characters
• A scaly, scared humanoid creature that splits its time between the ocean and 

shores and both fears and loves humans (and perhaps toy boats).
• A large ape-like creature that small children say helps them find their way home 

when they get lost in the woods (and who apparently really likes PB&J).
• A missing townie, assumed drowned, who has been experimented on by the evil 

Dr. Cartwright, given strange powers, and returned with no memory.

Possible Monsters
• A squid-like creature that is pulling night swimmers beneath the surface, never to 

be seen again.
• A wolf-like creature that stalks the shores of the bay and has, so far, only been 

attacking small animals.
• A violent crab-like creature that the good Dr. Cartwright had been trying to cure... 

until it escaped back into the bay.

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Holding Your Breath
At some point during their time in Point Pleasant, characters might find themselves 
underwater for longer than is comfortable. Though it may seem like an impossibly 
long time, the average person can, in a pinch, hold their breath for about two minutes 
without any negative effects. Beyond that, though, bad things can start happening. 
Consider the following when figuring out how long a character can hold their breath. 
Only apply adjustments from a cell once. For example, a teen lifeguard who is a strong 
swimmer would get a +20 second adjustment, not a +35 second adjustment. Finally, 
regardless of modifiers, the shortest a child can voluntarily hold their breath is 10 

PAGE 111



seconds, or 20 if forced to hold their breath. The shortest that a teen or adult can vol-
untarily hold their breath is 20 seconds, or 40 if forced to hold their breath.

Child Teen / Adult
Base 30 seconds 45 seconds
Voluntarily Holding Breath

Grit Die Adjustment d4: -10 secs d4: -10 secs
d6: -5 secs d6: -5 secs
d8: no adjustment d8: no adjustment
d10: +5 secs d10: +5 secs
d12: +10 secs d12: +10 secs
d20: +15 secs d20: +15 secs

Experience with Casual: no adjustment Casual: no adjustment
Swimming or Strong Swimmer: +5 secs Strong Swimmer: +15 secs
Free Diving Swim Team / Life Guard: +20 secs

Casual Free Diver: +35 secs
Experienced Free Diver: +60 secs

Stressed Relaxed & Given Time to Relaxed & Given Time to  
Prepare: +10 secs Prepare: +15 secs
Relaxed or Given Time to Relaxed or Given Time to  
Prepare (not both): +5 secs Prepare (not both): +10 secs
Rushed: -5 secs Rushed: -5 secs
Stressed: -5 secs Stressed: -5 secs
Rushed and Stressed: -10 secs Rushed and Stressed: -10 secs

Movement / Combat Only holding breath: Only holding breath: 
no adjustment no adjustment
Moving/Swimming: -10 secs Moving/Swimming: -10 secs
Struggling/Fighting: -20 secs Struggling/Fighting: -20 secs

Forced to Double total time Double total time
Hold Breath
Spending Each Adversity Token adds Each Adversity Token adds
Adversity Tokens +10 secs +10 secs

Finally, in any case where a character has lungs that are atypical in some way, they 
should discuss with the GM what would be appropriate for their ability to hold their 
breath.

Rule Addition: Skee-Ball
Skee-Ball is HARD. That’s the first thing to know about it. The second thing to know is 
how you figure out your score. Your best score across 10 games of Skee-Ball (which 
will cost you one dollar) is calculated as follows:

1. Roll Fight and Grit and add the total together. 
2. Then, multiply that sum by 10. 
3. Then, add 100 to get your best Skee-Ball score.

Unlike most rolls, your Skee-Ball roll only explodes if both dice explode.

PAGE 112



Boxcar Boys - Railroads of the USA
by Kira Magrann

Content Warnings: family estrangement, homelessness, poverty, racism, 
starvation, teen death, trains, violence

Setting information 
In the summer of 1932, during the Great Depression in America, 250,000 teenage 
hobos were roaming the rails. Some left home for romantic dreams of finding 
themselves, some were too poor and a burden to their families, but they all left in 
search of a better life. The boxcar boys and girls were all on the road to find the 
freedoms that might be out there somewhere in America. 
 
While most of the travellers were “roving boys,” there were also some girls that wore 
boy clothing for safety, and also a few African Americans who chose to travel the 
rails. They often started at the age of 13 and hopped on boxcars from New York City 
to Phoenix, picking up odd jobs or joining teen gangs of pickpockets along the way. 
 
Lots of the kids would gather together on the boxcars, reading literature, staring at 
the stars, and sharing stories of who they were and what they’d seen. Poverty, racism, 
and violence were not uncommon, but many of the kids banded together in a similar 
dream, or even just to survive this dark period of American history.

Setting Touchstones 
Carnivale (TV series), The Devil’s Backbone (film), Mad Men (TV series)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: Where are you all riding to together? 
• Group: Why does this particular train scare you?
• Group: Are you ok with criminal behavior?
• Group: What town are you excited to stop in on the way to your destination?
• Individual, Shared: If all of your problems went away, what would be your ideal 

dream for the future?
• Individual, Shared: What secret are you nervous that other people might find out 

about you?
• Individual, Shared: What’s your preferred method of getting food?

PAGE 113



Possible Points of Interest
• The types of boxcars that kids could jump onto vary from grain to fruit to boxes 

of pocketwatches. 
• Sometimes the boxcars had other people traveling in them, older bums that could 

prove dangerous. 
• Arkansas, Virginia, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Kansas, Ohio, Pennsylvania... basically 

any state in the U.S. that has a train stop. 
• Cities are sometimes good to hop into for thieving and entertainment and a one-

night story. 
• A deserted stop out in the country will sometimes lead to a friendly stranger or a 

bed or barn to sleep in at night.
• Forests can offer shelter, but beware of wolves and bears and mountain lions and 

thieves who would attack a campsite at night.
• Hobo camps can be a place of refuge to find friends or get word on a new job, but 

beware of scammers and desperate people.
• A corn field where boxcar kids could sleep relatively hidden at night, if there isn’t 

a monster amidst the rows.
• The deserts in the western parts of the U.S. can be beautiful, but they also contain 

rattlesnakes and scorpions. 

PAGE 114



Possible NPCs
• Molly Anderson, another boxcar hopper. She’s a bit older (around 18) and has seen 

things out on the tracks. She prefers to travel alone and possesses both occult and 
travel knowledge, if you can get her to trust you.

• John Edwards, one of the kinder police officers, who usually turns a blind eye to 
kids’ illegal activity as long as they’re not hurting anyone. If pushed he’ll take people 
in, and he’s known to break up fights and sometimes throw bullies in jail overnight 
to protect other kids. Officer Edwards is unfortunately still tied to the law, so his 
generosity can only go so far.

• Conductor James, who drives a popular route across the country, east to west. His 
train is known as the “Turtle Hopper” colloquially, because he’ll purposefully slow 
down for kids to more easily hop onto the boxcars of his train. A quiet fellow who 
mostly drives and has seen a lot in his time.

• Ruby McIntire, an older woman who owns a bakery at a Kansas stop. Ms. McIntire 
always gives out free bread and a warm place to sleep, in exchange for a day’s work 
in the bakery kitchen. 

• Ray Tully, the ghost of a reading boy who is often seen on boxcars. He had dreams 
of living free on the road for all his life, a wanderer. In un-life, it has become true. 
He’ll share bittersweet stories of his travels on the trains and provide a dark possible 
ending narrative for the PCs.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• This particular boxcar is haunted, and every night the ghosts get closer and closer. 
• You’re kicked off the train at night in miles of woods in Pennsylvania. The howls 

coming from the trees are inhuman and terrifying.
• There could be an easy week of pay in this camp, but you have to steal something 

from a rich person’s manor in town in exchange. 
• Go West Young Man… go train-hopping until you reach California. See all of America 

along the way. 
• The cops are checking the boxcars of the train you’re on. How do you manage to 

avoid arrest?
• One of you finds out your younger brother is searching for you on the boxcars, but 

you’re not sure why. Rumor has it he has gone missing. 
• Someone’s parents send you a telegram that things are going badly back at the 

farm. How do you get the money to send back to them?

Possible Threats
• The police, who are always on your backs.
• Other homeless youths who are bigger, stronger, or more ruthless than you.
• Normal white racist families.
• Predatory animals in the wild.
• Poisonous plants or berries.

Possible Powered Characters
• The Wandering Gentleman, a mysterious man who appears from the shadows of 

boxcars to protect children from evil.
• Jenny Brown, a teenage witch who can use hobo sigils to cast useful spells. 
• A traveling banjo player, in his twenties, whose songs are riddles to what mystical 

things lie on the road.

PAGE 115



Possible Monsters
• Hungry ghosts, ash-colored and transparent — they might be someone you know 

who died on the trains recently, but they’re kids just like you. They have the power 
to make those near them incredibly sad and thus suck out their life-force. Com-
passion toward them is their weakness.

• Red Eyes, creatures in the dark wilderness that trains travel through at night that 
are said to be half man, half beast. 

• Witches. Gentle, motherly types who invite kids to stay with them for the night 
but who will kill and eat them. 

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Boarding a Moving Train
To board a moving train, you must make a Flight check. If you have taken steps to 
prepare yourself (such as finding a good, flat stretch to run and get up to speed ahead 
of time), you can take a Planned Action. However, if you are attempting to board a 
train more unexpectedly, it will be a Snap Decision. If you have allies on the train 
already, they can make a Brawn check (5 or higher), which could be a Planned Action 
if they are prepared. If they succeed, they can provide +3 to your check.

Conditions Modifier
somewhat uneven ground +1
(pebbles, some roots)
uneven ground +4
(large roots, loose rocks)
recently rained +2
light rain +3
torrential rain +5
night, half moon or brighter +1
night, less than half moon +2
train going faster on a straightaway +4
train slowed -3
snowy +4
dark +2
being chased +2

If, however, there are any travelers actively trying to keep you from boarding, you 
must make both your Flight check and a separate combat check (with you as the 
defender) against each passenger trying to prevent you from boarding. So, if three 
passengers are trying to prevent you from boarding, you must make the standard 
Flight check and defend separately against all three of them in order to board.

Trying to board a train on a flat, level area in dry conditions in the middle of the day 
should be a difficulty of 5.

PAGE 116



Welcome to Stahlsburg - StaHlsburg, RI
by Sen-Foong Lim

Content Warnings: desecration of corpses, drowning, human sacrifice, Nazis, 
vampirism, violence against animals

Setting information
While Stahlsburg, Rhode Island doesn’t attract as many of the rich and famous as 
nearby Newport, it has its own charms. The rare oceanic climate means the town is 
blessed by temperate weather, remaining cool in the summer and mild in the winter. 
 
Stahlsburg is the smallest town in the smallest state in the union. Most of the town’s 
roughly 1,000 inhabitants work supporting the bustling summer tourism industry, 
with the rest providing the infrastructure for the small town. There is a doctor, a den-
tist, a police station, a K–12 school, a museum, a library, a grocery store, a gas station, 
and a small airport. Ferries run between the north harbor and the mainland, making 
the hour-long voyage across the 10-mile-wide Stahlsburg Sound at least twice a day. 
People from the mainland flock to the island for Stahlsburg’s famous holiday parades.

The island’s five lighthouses stand watch to mark key points where sandbars and 
rocky shoals have meant the demise of many ships. One that was notorious for not 
running aground was the U-853, a German U-boat sunk by the U.S. Navy just eight 
miles off the coast of Stahlsburg at the end of WWII. The whole area is a now a hot 
spot for sport divers due to the many wrecks offshore.
 
With only nine square miles of land, you’d think a kid couldn’t get into much trouble 
in Stahlsburg. 

You’d be wrong.

Setting Touchstones 
American Vampire (comic series), “Lore” (podcast), Mysterium (board game), 
The Strain (novel), We3 (comic series)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: Which of the NPCs does your gang perceive as their nemesis?
• Individual, Shared: How do you feel about the recent arrival of the ECA to your 

hometown?
• Individual, Shared: What rumor about the island interests you the most and why?
• Individual, Shared: What is your character looking forward to and why?
• Individual, Shared or Private: How does living on an island affect your character?

PAGE 117



• Individual, Private: What’s one place on or around the island that you do not ever 
want to explore and why?

• Individual, Private: Of all the places on or around the island, which one resonates 
with you the most and why?

Possible Points of Interest
• Little Salt Lake is at the center of the island with tributaries leading to Stahlsburg 

Sound. Local legend tells tale that Captain William Kidd, the infamous pirate, hid 
treasure in its depths in 1699.

• Moon Beach, on the north shore, is a popular summer hangout. On a calm day, 
you can swim to the sandbar. On a warm night, it’s the perfect make-out spot. 
Many rumors surround Moon Beach, including ghost stories of long-lost lovers.

• The wreck of the U-853 is located in the water about eight miles east of Stahls-
burg. It has recently become popular with divers, who have begun to explore this 
underwater graveyard — even, apparently, at night.

• An archaeological survey of Niantic Bluffs, just west of the southeast lighthouse, 
recently uncovered a cave system in the bluff with paintings covering the walls. 
Some depict the Niantic tribes driving off the invading Mohegans. Some depict 
other more cryptic and troubling acts.

• The Stahlsburg Betterment Council hopes to expand the north harbor, but the 
nearby sandy dunes are home to many endangered species. The Environmental 
Conservation Agency (ECA) opened an office on the island last year and their 
lead scientist has been raising a stink about this since she arrived.

• The five lighthouses have been part of a local teenage rite of passage since time 
immemorial — can you race to each lighthouse and reach the top of each one 
between midnight and dawn?

• Stahlsburg was under covert observation during WWII due to the number of 
people of German ancestry living here. Tales of spies still persist to this day!

Possible NPCs
• Sergeant Heinz “Hank” Baumeister, who is a stickler for rules. He’s a constant thorn 

in the side of any kid who just wants to have fun. Hank yearns for some real crime 
— not just stopping traffic during one of the island’s civic parades.

• Margaret Carter, the proprietor of the gas station and grocery store on the island. 
She is the town’s busybody, and there’s not a person she doesn’t know or a rumor 
she hasn’t heard.

• Dr. Carol Cushing, who heads up the ECA. With multiple PhDs in evolutionary 
biology and endocrinology, she is working so that no one trespasses in the wooded 
area to the east or the dunes to the north.

• Gerhardt Dietrich, the latest in a long and venerated lines of lighthouse keepers — a 
job that has been in his family since Stahlsburg was founded. A man of strict disci-
pline, he ensures that the lights never go out.

• Betty Finch, the town’s librarian and curator of Stahlburg’s museum. She is spritely 
and bubbly and, despite her occupation, quite talkative. If you need to know some-
thing about the island’s history, Ms. Finch is your best bet.

• Peter Schwartz, the caretaker of the schools and the town’s tiny graveyard. A tall, 
gaunt man whose eyes look like they’ve seen a thing or three. Peter is not the talk-
ative type.

• Jack Tubson, who runs a charter boat out of the north harbor. Once an officer on 
the Atherton — the destroyer responsible for sinking the U-853 — “Cap’n Jack” now 
ferries anglers and divers to the best spots around the island, pipe in hand and a 
smile on his face.

• Dr. Karl Von Braun, the dentist. He’s a dapper old gentleman who walks a slight limp 
and carries a silver-headed cane. He always examines your canines thoroughly at 
your check-ups.

PAGE 118



Possible Adventure Hooks
• The five lighthouses form a pentagram with Little Salt Lake in the center of it. 

Little Salt Lake is also featured heavily in the paintings on the Niantic Bluffs. These 
paintings depict something red radiating from the lake itself. Could this be Captain 
Kidd’s hidden treasure?

• A large percentage of the population has been sick with a seemingly incurable flu 
bug this year. Simultaneously, there has been a rash of vandalism at the local grave-
yard. Small as it is, several of the graves have been exhumed and the hearts of the 
fresher corpses have been removed with seemingly surgical precision. Others are 
simply missing.

• Rumour has it that the submarine U-853 was not coming to attack the USA, but 
to search for something that was brought over from Germany by the island’s first 
settlers. There have been reports of activity near the site of the sunken U-boat in 
the dark of night. Is it looters looking for WWII memorabilia or is something fishy 
going on?

• The local authorities are cracking down on the teenagers on the island, looking for 
anyone who may be involved in the ritual killing of animals (you know… for kicks). 
Several carcasses have been found, drained of blood, near Little Salt Lake. There 
seem to be two tiny prick marks in all of their necks...

• More than one pair of star-crossed lovers have reported seeing strange sights on 
Moon Beach as of late — a girl, walking out of the waves, covered in seaweed.

• The ECA is desperately trying to get both the eastern forest and the northern dunes 
designated as National Wildlife Refuge Areas. They’ve been doing a lot of digging 
in the forest lately, leaving fresh mounds of dirt behind.

Possible Threats
• The ECA is, in truth, a front for a sinister group that is more interested in the 

supernatural than the natural. Their agents include scientists, occultists, and even 
the rare ESPers. Their current agenda — to create colossal carrion beetles — is in 
its final stages. They are chemically enlarging them from local endangered fauna 
as a bioweapon in the predicted zombie apocalypse.

• The crew of the U-853 did not all die in 1945. Seven of the Marine Einsatzkomman-
dos survived and have been hiding for the past 35 years, slowly gathering intel. 
But, due to recent interest in their sunken home, they must now come ashore to 
complete their mission — to find and resurrect the Vampire King!

Possible Powered Characters
• The victim of a ritual drowning 300 years ago, this pale, ghostly figure, wet and 

covered in kelp, appears on Moon Beach on nights when the moon is full. If you 
are lucky (?) enough to see the Silent Girl, you will be visited by her in your dreams 
(see Rule Addition: Dream Speak below). If you look very carefully, you may also 
see two tiny prick marks on her neck...

• An escaped ECA experiment known as Project Y. This weaponized piping plover, 
an endangered species of shoreline bird, was intended for use as a maritime 
recon unit. The ECA bioengineered Project Y to give the bird infrared sight with a 
five-mile range, active and passive camouflage, extended flight range, and limited 
telepathy (images and single words). Project Y is injured and seeking help, but 
may be defensive in its current state.

Possible Monsters
• When insects feed on dead matter exposed to mutagens, the result is colossal 

carrion beetles. Whatever isn’t dead, they will try to kill in order to eat or lay their 
eggs on. The size of a golden retriever, they are quick and fierce but primal in their 
intelligence. Their armored forms are highly resilient to blunt force but susceptible 
to the cold.

PAGE 119



• The crew members of the German U-boat, known as Marine Einsatzkomman-
dos (MEKs) were biomechanically modified to breath and maneuver underwater. 
Though each man is over 50 years old now, the MEKs are still formidable 
opponents, especially in the water. They need to fully submerge in salt water 
every four hours or they function at half capacity. They cannot tolerate high 
temperatures or bright lights.

• Ferried across the Atlantic in a coffin by occultists in 1685, the Vampire King 
escaped to Stahlsburg, fearing he would be found and killed by hunters in the Old 
World. While the occultists went on to become some of the Stahlsburg’s founders 
(commissioning five lighthouses when four would have sufficed), the Vampire 
King slept at the bottom of Little Salt Lake, an ancient and magical portal to the 
nether realm. As the 300th year of his sleep comes to an end, blood sacrifices are 
being mingled into the waters of the lake in an attempt to wake him. While the 
King is susceptible to beheading and a stake through the heart, he is not bothered 
in the slightest by holy items or garlic. Who told you those would work?

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Holding Your Breath
As Stahlsburg is surrounded on all sides by water, swimming and diving may be a part 
of many adventures on the island. Refer to the “Pointing Pleasantly” module for rules 
regarding holding your breath and other underwater escapades.

Rule Addition: Dream Speak
The characters may be visited by the Silent Girl in their dreams at night. The GM will 
give any characters who met her a picture that represents a message she is trying to 
tell them in a dream. The GM may use drawings, photographs, collages of pictures cut 
out from magazines, etc., to represent the dreams.

Some nights, she may visit a single character. Some nights, she may visit the whole 
party. Each individual character, however, will receive a different image. Characters 
cannot show anyone their dream, nor should they draw it out. They must describe it 
in words. The GM may wish to bend some of these rules if a character is, for example, 
a gifted artist.

If multiple characters had dreams, it useful to look for similarities in shapes, colors, 
etc., to try to decipher the hidden message that the Silent Girl is trying to tell you.

If it suits the story the group is telling, the GM may have the Silent Girl or other NPCs 
give clues as to how to break her out of the dream world.

PAGE 120



Torn Memories - Elysium, FL
by Nicholas Malinowski

Note: This module plays very differently from the others. There are elements here that 
the players must not know before playing. If you’re planning to GM this module, read 
on! If you want to get ideas, read on! But if you’re ever planning to be a non-GM player 
in a game using this module, stop now.

Content Warnings: violence against children by adults

GM, please read the following to your players: “In this module the GM is encouraged 
to lean into players’ fears, which they’ll be sharing with the GM. The elements of 
horror are key to this module. If this seems like a more intense experience than you’re 
interested in having, you may wish to look at other module which are not as based on 
the element of fear.

“If you have specific triggers, you should inform the GM of them so that the GM can 
avoid them. Those triggers can and should be completely off limits even as the GM is 
trying to stoke your fears.”

Before playing this module, be sure to review whatever player safety measures you’re 
planning to take with your players.

Setting information
The summer of ’82 was one of horror. Several kids went missing, their bodies never 
recovered. In this small town, it was unheard of. The legends have grown, and the 
original occupant of the house, one Hathaway Burton, a school teacher in Ulster 
Middle School, was demonized and blamed — though no proof was ever found. Shortly 
thereafter, he retreated into his house, never to be heard from again.

The characters are ghosts of the victims, who are forced to live through their deaths 
every night. They are unable to leave the house as their spirits are tied directly to it, 
so if any of the characters try to leave, something prohibits that — the windows won’t 
break or open, the walls bleed when hit but don’t actually break. Weird things can be 
found throughout the house, which are indicative of the haunting. 

The kids have been “double dog dared” to stay the night in the Hunt House and the 
game starts with them on the porch, staring at the front door. They all have the same 
memory of being dared to stay by the school bully.

PAGE 121



The truth of the Hunt House is that the characters all died here. As you describe the 
horrors of the house, watch your players. If one of them reacts the hardest in a partic-
ular room, make that be where their character died. Build up the suspense for them 
there. Whenever that character enters that room, something odd happens.

Setting Touchstones
The Collected Works of Edgar Allan Poe (book), Criminal Minds (TV series), CSI: Crime 
Scene Investigation (TV series), The Haunting of Hill House (novel), Law & Order (TV 
series), Seven (film)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Individual, Shared: What rumors have you heard about the Hunt House?
• Individual, Shared with GM: What frightens you — the player, not the character?

Possible Points of Interest
The only location in the game is the Hunt House, the site of all of the characters’ 
gruesome murders at the hands of Hathaway Burton. Though dilapidated, it still has 
all of the standard features of a house. Every room should have something “off” about 
it. While you should tailor the content of the rooms to reflect the fears of your players, 
here are some suggestions. 

• Living Room: Here there is a turntable that randomly turns on — even when 
unplugged, damaged, or even destroyed. It is creepier if it plays the same song 
repeatedly, and for atmosphere, we suggest actually playing the song for your 
players. If you’re able to manipulate it to slow it down, so much the better.

• Closet Space: It is here that the first of the “Rat Kings” can be found. A rat king is a 
bundle of rats whose tails have all been tied together, their corpses lying tangled 
in a pile. It might be found with a skull, or perhaps just some moldy coats which 
are falling apart.

• Kitchen: Old and decrepit, this kitchen is in need of serious renovation. In the 
fridge is glass mason jars filled with pickled human organs and body parts. Some 

PAGE 122



of these parts are from the kids. 
• Basement: The sump pump is clogged with something and overflowing onto the 

floor in a minor tide of sorts. There is another Rat King here under the stairs. 
• Master Bedroom: Located upstairs. There is another of the Rat Kings in the closet, 

and there is a blood stain that grows on the bare mattress. If you look hard enough, 
you can see the shape of a body within the mattress.

• Small Bedroom: This room is filled with various dolls — Barbie dolls, ceramic dolls, 
straw dolls, etc. It seems like each doll watches you when you are in the room.

Possible Powered Characters
• In this module, the powered character has powers over spirits as a medium. They 

are also aware of the fact that it is the current year, not 1982. Some of the other 
powers they exhibit are things that would seem magical. For example, a smart-
phone would appear to the characters as a glowing white rectangle floating in 
front of the powered character. This character’s main focus is to help guide the 
spirits to their final rest. Help them see what happened so they can move forward. 
They will help combat the evil that is tied here as well.

Possible Monsters
• The monster is not really super-powered as much as it is a memory of what 

happened to the characters. Thus, it changes shape depending on who is looking 
at it, and in combat it always seems to win. Use the monster at the best moment. 
For example, when the players are neck deep in searching a room, have one of 
them notice something: a sound, an odd light, something along those lines. Use 
the monster to drive the fear. Unless the character has come to terms with their 
death, if they “die” they start the adventure over again standing at the door ready 
to prove that they can stay the night.

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Removal: No Co-Control of the Powered Character
In this module, the co-control of the powered character is removed from the rules. 
Instead, the powered character is the controlled by a single player (not the GM) who 
understands the nature of the other players’ connection with the house.

Rule Addition: Player Elimination
When a character realizes that they were killed in the house, they will vanish, their ghost 
finally being able to rest in peace. Once that occurs, the player controlling that character 
will be eliminated from the game. However, as a few players figure out what’s going on, 
the eliminations will likely occur more and more quickly.

PAGE 123



The Snyder Sisters - Shephard, MI
by Tamaria Montgomery, Bill West, and CyberLeo

Content Warnings: lycanthropy, missing parents, violence against animals

Setting information
On the Canada-Michigan border sits the small, tucked-away town of Shephard, Mich-
igan, a snowy town with a strange, magical history.
 
Hundreds of years ago, twin sisters Tiffany and Tanya Snyder were active in the 
Underground Railroad, sneaking escaped slaves to the safety of Canada. From the 
basement of their Victorian house, a network of tunnels extended across the town, 
allowing people who knew about them to get quickly from one place to another.
 
Tiffany and Tanya, though, helped more than slaves to escape — and were more than 
just wealthy, high-minded sisters. The two were, in fact, powerful witches who were 
able to create illusions and weave powerful magic. In the course of helping escaped 
slaves, they also helped were-wolves who were fleeing persecution in the States to 
get to the wilds of Canada.
 
Though the lycanthropes heading north were kindly, they still had to eat. Through 
a series of attacks on the sheep and other animals in the town, some animals were 
infected with therianthropy (the ability of humans to turn into specific types of 
animals — or, in this case, the ability of animals to turn into humans, too).
 
Now, hundreds of years later, many citizens of the town are were-creatures them-
selves, some more animal than human, and all trying to eke out a life in the cold town 
of Shephard, Michigan.

Setting Touchstones
Kiki’s Delivery Service (film), Ponyo (film), Tokyo Mew Mew (manga series), 
Wolf Children (film)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: What are some notable organizations in the town?
• Individual, Shared: What rumor about the town interests you the most?
• Individual, Shared: What species are you? (See Rule Addition: Were-Creatures for 

more details on the various species available.)
• Individual, Shared: How much does the rest of the town know about what 

species you are?

PAGE 124



• Individual, Shared: What is your character’s relationship with magic?
• Individual, Private: What are three advantages that come with your species? What 

are three disadvantages that come with your species?

Possible Points of Interest
• The tunnels, which run underneath the town. For people who know how to access 

them, these tunnels connect every important building in town to every other one. 
In some cases, though, powerful illusions present what seem like barriers — and in 
others, literal locked doors block the way.

• The sheep farm, where a party is held every full moon by some of the citizens of 
the town.

• The hospital, which is surprisingly efficient for such a small town. People who go 
there seem to have their ailments diagnosed quickly by “Aunt” Cookie Snyder (an 
elderly nurse who’s the most gifted diagnostician anyone has ever met) and then 
healed by Dr. Parker, a young physician who moved to town recently.

• Shephard Mall, which has a beautiful koi pond and conservatory in its center. This 
astonishingly nice mall is the home of the mermaids.

• Shephard School, the combined middle and high school for this small town.
• The evergreen forest, which is beautiful during the day, but at night there always 

seems to be strange sounds emanating from here. Rumor has it that humans who 
go in at night come back changed — sometimes for the better.

• The petting zoo, which seems to be open at all hours, especially after high school 
dances.

Possible NPCs
• Gillian Arnaud, the most hapless of the mermaids. Gillian can only maintain human 

form for short bursts. Even her mermaid form is difficult for her to keep up. Still, 
that doesn’t stop her from going shopping in the stores nearest the pond. 

• Carnegie Carter, a retired professor of cryptozoology who came to the town 
after hearing rumors of what’s going on. He’s generally harmless and pretty 
absent-minded.

• Dr. Candice Parker, the town physician who seems to be able to solve any problem 
quickly. In truth, Dr. Parker is a good witch, committed to healing.

• Caroline Potter, a beloved teacher in the middle school who adopted a young child, 
Celera Hopkins, when her parents were found murdered in the woods. Though she 
loudly proclaims the existence of were-creatures, her stories are so strange that 
they actually deter most would-be believers.

• Germaine Shephard, who is the local sheriff and a pillar of the community. Shep-
hard’s ancestors founded the town. His therianthropy may be the worst-kept secret 
in the town, if not the history of the world. 

• Dr. Elizabeth “Cookie” Snyder, a gifted diagnostician who is actually a were-hound, 
capable of using her heightened senses to quite literally sniff out illnesses — even in 
her fully human form. She’s also the “mother” (actually great-great-grandniece) of 
Tiffany and Tanya. Good friends with Dr. Parker.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• One of the characters’ parents go missing. Especially if they’re more prey than 

predator and if it’s near a full moon, it could be pretty critical that the gang find 
them. It could be that the missing parent has agreed to let Professor Carter study 
them — or it could be that something has its fangs into them.

• Gillian has to get something from the other side of town, but her memory isn’t all 
that good and she can’t describe it to the characters. They have to figure out a way 
to take her with them safely.

• After being away for some time, Dr. Snyder comes back with two young children, 
her adopted daughters. They need someone to show them around town, but they 
start exhibiting some strange powers, especially when they’re together.

PAGE 125



• The Sewing Club is becoming more and more exclusive lately, holding secret meet-
ings late at night. Perhaps one of the character’s parents joined and seem to be 
spending all of their time there. 

• At the school, the most easily persuadable of the social cliques (the “sheep”) has 
gone missing, and Lucy, the overly energetic girl who desperately wants to be that 
group’s leader but is barely tolerated by anyone, comes yapping to the group about 
the strange circumstances of their disappearance.

Possible Threats
• A group of hunters from out of town who want to bag one of the most interesting 

trophies anyone has ever heard of.
• A group of citizens who became clowns and serve the unseen basement horror.
• Aliens who mean no harm but aim to study the were-creatures in Shephard — and 

are sometimes unintentionally rough in the process.

Possible Powered Characters
• A new girl in town, Tiffany Snyder is a boisterous girl who appears 12. She’s good 

at sleight-of-hand tricks and very acrobatic. Technology doesn’t seem to work 
right around her, either. Her powers include the ability to create powerful illusions 
and the ability to “jinx” technology. She is older than she looks, but each time she 
regains her youth, she loses all of her memories.

• The other new girl in town, Tanya Snyder is much quieter and much smarter than 
her twin sister. She, too, is good at sleight-of-hand though she’s less agile. Also 
a gifted illusionist, Tanya can teleport short distances (see Rule Addition: Magic). 
Tanya is also the only one of the twins able to initiate their regeneration.

Possible Monsters
• An unseeable eldritch horror that lurks always out of the corner of your vision and 

lives in basements. Its touch can infect humans and were-creatures alike with a 
disease that turns them into clowns.

• There is a mean old lady who lives off on the edge of town and generally wants to 
be left alone. But, if she is forced to interact with children, her dark magic could 
be put to particularly dangerous ends.

PAGE 126



ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Magic
There’s a reason that the Snyder sisters are also gifted in sleight-of-hand tricks: magic 
works only if the uninitiated don’t know that it’s magic... or just don’t know that it’s 
happening. Because of this, most magic is done in private. If done in public, though, 
the magician will need to come up with a way to explain away what people just saw. If 
they are not able to do so, their magic simply won’t work. Tanya, for example, is able 
to teleport short distances — or send objects to and from her sister, no matter the 
distance. However, if that would mean that someone uninitiated into the ways of 
magic would see her do so (or see the effect of her doing so), her attempts at 
teleportation will have no effect. Players should treat magic like psychic powers in 
terms of the other mechanical aspects, including psychic energy.

Rule Addition: Were-Creatures
Players have the option of being a were-creature in this game. Any species is open 
to them because of the generational changes that have affected the town and the 
powerful nexus of magic that the town is. During character creation, players may 
choose to be a were-creature, which might be a human that can become an animal or 
an animal that can become a human. Either is encouraged.

Were-creatures have many of the same instincts of their animal form, even when 
appearing fully human. Human were-rabbits, for example, will still be jumpy and 
easily frightened. Were-cats will still impulsively bat things off tables, even if they 
have fingers instead of paws. As such, even in human form, a character’s stats should 
be assigned with the animal in mind. A few examples include:

Species d20 d12 d10 d8 d6 d4
Were-Cat Flight Fight Charm Brains Grit Brawn
Were-Hound Charm Fight Brawn Grit Brains Flight
Were-Wolf Fight Brawn Grit Flight Brains Charm
Were-Rabbit Flight Charm Brains Brawn Grit Fight
Were-Fish (Mermaids) Charm Flight Brains Fight Grit Brawn
Were-Sheep Charm Grit Fight Brawn Brains Flight

During character creation, players choosing to be a were-creature should decide 
their species and, with the GM’s help, determine three advantages of their species 
and three disadvantages. These may be limited-use, depending on the nature of the 
benefits and detriments.

PAGE 127



What Lurks Beyond Southwood Drive?
 - Arlington Meadows, OH

by Epidiah Ravachol

Content Warnings: claustrophobia, dogs, mob mentality, claustrophobia, temporal 
displacement, violence against animals

Setting information
Note: This module is based on true events.
 
The world is a big place — but not in Ohio, not in the early ’80s. Surrounded by 
densely packed woods and vast oceans of corn is the tiny suburban allotment called 
Arlington Meadows. An island of new homes and new families isolated by an ocean of 
farm and forest. The only road in is the same road out. Nothing ever happens here… 
 
…during the day. The sun was a sliver caught between the trees when you swear you 
saw that pterodactyl knock the TV antenna off the Kramers’ roof. At twilight you toss 
pebbles into the dark blue sky, playing fetch with the bats, but when the blue fades 
to black, the howling of the wild dogs drives you indoors. And it is only by the light 
of the waning moon that the dead end of Southwood Drive opens up into the forest, 
revealing a neighborhood of spectral mansions.
 
Something odd is afoot in Arlington Meadows, which has un-stuck it in time.

Setting information
Amazing Stories (TV series), In Search Of... (TV series), It (novel), Pet Sematary (novel), 
Scooby-Doo, Where Are You! (TV series), Stand by Me (film), Watchers (novel)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Individual, Shared: When you do manage to get a ride to the nearest town (45 

minutes away), where do you like to go?
• Individual, Shared: What is the only place you have refused to explore?
• Individual, Shared: What is the most dangerous thing you do for fun?
• Individual, Shared: Everyone here has at least one dog. Tell us about them!
• Individual, Shared or Private: What do you think Marcus Smith is up to in his barn 

late at night?
• Individual, Private: What object from a distant time have you found in the allot-

ment and where do you hide it?

PAGE 128



Possible Points of Interest
• By day, Southwood Drive dead ends into a forest and a snake-infested pond. Half 

a day’s hike through the trees brings you to a barbed-wire fence and an open field 
where a dead bull was once found. On certain nights of an inscrutable calendar, all 
of this is replaced by a village of ghost mansions. These spectral homes are made 
physical by the moonlight and are haunted by a single ghost that wanders among 
the lonely manses, wheezing out a pathetic wail from his crooked neck.

• A corrugated drainage tunnel — large enough for a child to walk in upright and a 
teen to explore stooped — allows a stream to run beneath several streets in the 
allotment. At one end it’s barred, which is no obstacle to the slighter kids or those 
with enough brawn to yank it open. There are twists and turns enough within 
to cut most of the tunnel off from daylight. There are even rumors of a secret 
passage hidden deep in the dark.

• The Smith house and barn — home to Marcus Smith, his hoard of objects from 
throughout time, and his temporal experiments — sits just past the barred end of 
the drainage tunnel. There are treasures to be found here, as well as great peril. 
And Mr. Smith trucks with no trespassers.

• The Larret tree fort is a misnomer. It is a two-story fort built on stilts of railroad 
ties, atop a gentle slope that leads down into a forest edge. All the kids of the 
neighborhood are free to use the fort, but not so many do these days. Recently, 
strange noises can be heard from the forest beyond, where rumor has it primeval 
creatures roam.

Possible NPCs
• Olivia Larret, the matriarch of a family with a pool, a treehouse, two rabbits, three 

cats, two dogs, a parrot, and a ColecoVision. Their house is the cool place to hang 
out, and that’s just as Mrs. Larret wants it. An affable woman who’s always ready to 
feed and listen to the kids, she is a great ally — especially when someone is injured. 
If you fake an illness to get out of school, she’ll promise your parents to look after 
you, then drive you out for fries and a shake as long as you promise not to snitch. 
But she is also physically incapable of believing any tales of real weirdness.

• Marcus Smith, the sort of neighbor no one really thinks to invite to potlucks 
and parties, but who can be depended on to help fix your hot-water heater or 
transmission. A disheveled recluse, he is a clever, odd man with a begrudgingly 
warm but prickly personality. No one is invited onto his property, which is covered 
in old cars and tractors. The property has been in his family before the allotment 
was developed. In fact, most of Arlington Meadows belonged to his family farm until 
it was carved up and sold after his parents’ mysterious murder in the ’60s. He kept 
only the house and barn. His house contains an impossible hoard, including pristine 
items from the past that no longer belong in our time. But the true weirdness 
hides in his barn, where Marcus experiments with the very fabric of time in search 
of his parents’ killer.

• Michelle Strang, a dark and mysterious teenager who lives at Southwood Drive’s 
dead end. She listens to Iron Maiden, Black Sabbath, and Judas Priest and has the 
blacklight posters to prove it. She has a pet tarantula. She has a collection of BB 
guns, most of which don’t work, and a beaut of a pellet gun. On her less misan-
thropic days, she’ll lend the BB guns to the younger kids in the neighborhood, set 
them loose in the forest beyond her house, and then hunt this least dangerous prey 
with her pellet gun. She is awesome.

PAGE 129



Possible Adventure Hooks
• The Larrets’ tree fort stands on the edge of a forest teeming with primeval 

castaways haplessly drawn to the present by Marcus Smith’s experiments. The 
silhouette of a pterodactyl in the sky above the forest, or the creaking and falling of 
trees, or a beloved dog chasing after some unknown animal — something tempts 
the kids into the primordial woods.

• Nestled in rural Ohio, this allotment is the only place for miles around where more 
than two front doors are within walking distance from each other. This draws in a lot 
of strange kids from the surrounding farms for trick-or-treat. Some stranger than 
most. One Halloween, kids wearing your exact same costumes are getting to all the 
houses a half hour before you, causing several parents to accuse you of doubling 
back. Who are these doppelgängers?

• Bored kids and long, lazy summer days can lead to troublesome dynamics. A game 
of war that starts with cap guns and rubber bands quickly escalates to whipping 
crab-apples and borrowing Michelle Strang’s BB guns. It’s all fun and games until 
someone is chased into Smith’s barn.

• Low-pitched humming can be heard throughout the neighborhood whenever folks 
are experiencing déjà vu or something seems out of place. The source is a baseball 
backstop that stands in a cornfield today, but will be erected in the year 2007 as 
part of the new development that will become the spectral mansions. In that distant 
future, it will sync harmonic resonance with the experiments in Smith’s barn, closing 
the temporal loop between them. Anyone caught out of phase with their time who 
touches this Safety Gate will be transported back to the moment they left.

Possible Threats
• Marcus Smith is obsessed, but not malicious. His experiments, however, attract 

the attention of shadowy government agencies, especially ones from other 
moments in time investigating disappearances.

• The rise of satanic panic fueled by the kids’ own accounts of bizarre encounters 
have led some parents to suspect Arlington Meadows has a satanism problem. 
Operating at first in secret and through rumors, they blame other parents or 
Michelle Strang. They might become bold enough to take dire action.

• The Smith family’s murderer, drawn from the past in Marcus Smith’s obsessive 
search for him, now wanders the night in Arlington Meadows.

Possible Powered Characters
• A psychic dog, called from the future with a purpose it has since forgotten, joins 

the neighborhood pack.
• An adult version of one of the kids, who has been pulled from the future to save 

the kids from a terrible fate.

Possible Monsters
• Dinosaurs drawn up from the past by the harmonic call of Smith’s barn! Generally, 

they stay hidden in the woods behind the Larrets’ tree fort, but not all creatures 
stay where they belong.

• Wild dogs that have bred with wolves and other canines from stranger times 
roam the countryside, but tend to only be active at night.

• The spectral mansions beyond Southwood Drive are haunted by the angry and 
anguished ghost of the developer who will buy the land and build the houses just 
before the market crash of ’08. Drawn at the moment of his suicide back to a time 
when it was all wetlands and farm.

PAGE 130



ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Running With the Pack
The neighborhood dogs run freely and unleashed with the kids. Though it is clear 
which dog belongs to which family, they will treat all child characters as family, 
especially when the chips are down. The neighborhood pack starts the game with two 
Adversity Tokens for every child character in the game. If you’re in need of aid and 
another player agrees to narrate how your dog (or any dog if you’re a child) helps, you 
may spend the pack’s Adversity Tokens. However, dogs are creatures of instinct and 
can only aid in Snap Decisions, not Planned Actions. Any character who shows a dog 
that they’re a good boy or girl by giving them a treat or wrestling with them can add 
any number of their own Adversity Tokens to the pack’s pool.

Rule Addition: Psychic Dogs
In addition to the typical powered characters, you can add an intelligent, psychic dog 
to your pack. Such a good girl or boy would be drawn from the future with amnesia. 
Like the kids, they have their own Adversity Tokens, separate from those of the dog 
pack, that work like normal Adversity Tokens. Unless appropriate aspects are taken, a 
psychic dog cannot speak, read, or manipulate objects with any dexterity finer than 
what is afforded them by their mouth and paws. They can, however, pass as a normal 
dog and absolutely brighten your day when they greet you at the bus stop.

Rule Modification: Pets in Peril 
During the boundaries discussion before the game begins, be sure talk about just how 
comfortable you are with the neighborhood dogs being in danger. Sometimes it is 
easier to see our characters in peril and suffering fates that we never want to see befall 
even fictional animals. Check in to see if if everyone okay with the dogs being in danger. 
Would it be too upsetting to see a dog injured? How about killed, even if such an 
option was available for our characters? Do not subject any dogs, even the wild dogs, 
to something a player is not comfortable with.

PAGE 131



Starship Maurepas - Maurepas, LA
by Jesse Roberge

Content Warnings: hearing voices, physical alteration, trans-species transformation

Setting information
An hour from both Baton Rouge and New Orleans is Maurepas, a small, prosperous 
town populated by employees of Big Oil. A recently installed well has improved 
everyone’s standard of living — but the town is far enough away from everything that 
no one’s excited to be there.
 
Still, the town is tiny: two restaurants and no stoplights, just a single stop sign. The 
“high school” is actually a K–12 building, and the population of the town is stuck 
around 3,000.
 
If you aren’t in the oil industry, married to someone in it, or the child of someone in it, 
you aren’t in Maurepas for long. There isn’t anything to do but boat, hunt, fish, and, if 
you’re old enough, work.
 
Things have gotten odd since a recent hurricane, though. A few people who’ve gone 
boating near the wildlife management area have come back telling tall tales of what 
they’ve seen in the swamps. It seems like they’re just making stuff up, though. Things 
like that don’t happen in a quiet town like this, right? And some people have claimed 
that they’ve started hearing voices through their radios — and they’re normal folks 
without any other signs of madness. Must be the interference that outpost in Livingston 
is researching, right?

Setting Touchstones
Andromeda (TV series), EVE Online (video game), Explorers (film), GURPS sci-fi 
supplements (role-playing game), Pacific Rim (film), Star Trek (TV series), Star Wars 
(film series)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Individual, Shared: What do you do to keep busy in such a boring town?
• Individual, Shared: How has your family benefited from the recent boom in the 

local oil industry?
• Individual, Shared: What is your relationship with the outdoors?
• Individual, Shared: What rumor about the town interests you the most?
• Individual, Shared or Private: What terrible dreams have you had recently?
• Individual, Private: What trouble have you gotten in to alleviate your boredom?

PAGE 132



Possible Points of Interest
• The town’s three churches (Southern Baptist, Catholic, and Methodist), which 

are the hub of social life in the community. Nearly every citizen in Maurepas is a 
member,at least nominally.

• LIGO Observatory, which is technically a passive observatory. In truth, though, 
there is more going on at the installation. Years ago, the government built addi-
tional research facilities on the property to study the manipulation of space and 
time, possibly using some alien technology.

• Maurepas High School, which is actually K–12 given how small the town is. Be-
cause of that, the size of each graduating class is quite small.

• Boat launches provide a way to get out fishing, and also to explore the swamps.
• Maurepas Swamp Wildlife Management Area, which is the area’s wildlife preserve. 

It is a day’s hike from the town, but getting there is much easier by boat.
• Roche’s Bar & Grill, one of the two restaurants in town and the only bar.
• Rich’s Po Boys and Bowling, the other restaurant in town with attached bowling alley.
• The corner store, an unnamed convenience store and the only place to get staples 

in the town. Owned by the Granges.

Possible NPCs
• Dr. Seth Baker, a Big Oil scientist heading up, on paper, the development of the 

refinery and experimenting with new extraction techniques. Always a few weeks 
behind schedule and looking for shortcuts.

• Taylor Coulette, park ranger in Maurepas Swamp. Unflinchingly honest and incor-
ruptible — but also overworked.

• Willy & Mathilde Grange, the elderly husband and wife owner/operators of the 
unnamed corner store. Both inveterate gossips, but generally nice folks.

• Jennifer “Tex” Haldeman, a top-level oil executive who moved her family to 
Maurepas. She is here to oversee the expansion of their work in town.

• Reverend Barry Jones, the local Methodist pastor. Reverend Jones has recently be-
come much more aloof, and his sermons have become more esoteric than before.

• Father Colum O’Connell, the local priest. Kindly but a bit doddering. Passed up 
some years ago for a position as a bishop, but he views it as the Lord’s will.

• Raj Rasmuthan, the sole official scientist working at the LIGO Observatory. 
Nominally in charge of analyzing gravitational-wave data, but actually much more 
deeply involved in the goings-on there. Lives with his husband and children in 
Maurepas instead of in Livingston.

• Preacher Caroline Smithers, the local Baptist minister. Generally preaches hellfire 
and brimstone to her congregation.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• While camping or otherwise exploring the wildlife management area, players 

discover part of a ship buried in the mire.
• One of the characters, or someone close to the characters, becomes obsessed with 

the occasional speech-like static that can be heard over the radio, especially late at 
night, calling them “alien voices.”

• Someone close to the characters disappears for several weeks, then returns having 
undergone the transformation through the ship’s Chrysalis Machine (see Rule 
Addition: Chrysalis Machine for details). Perhaps they are happy with the changes 
and encourage the other characters to step into the machine as well — or perhaps 
they desperately want to find out how to transform back.

• After someone close to the characters transforms, non-human bounty hunters 
show up looking for them.

• One of the characters discovers alien technology, either in the wildlife management 
area or when one of their parents, who works for the oil company, brings it home.

PAGE 133



Possible Threats
• The government agents investigating the ship are more concerned with securing 

the technology than they are with the safety of the town.
• Big Oil discovers a hint of what the ship can do and wants to scavenge its parts 

to attempt to reverse engineer them.

Possible Powered Characters
• A transformed player character or NPC gains strange, perhaps unstable powers 

(see “Adjustments to Rules” for discussion of transformation).
• A person previously transformed needs the group’s help because of defects suf-

fered from their transformation.
• The AI of the ship is a fully sapient, highly advanced computer that functions well 

beyond human capacity. It will adopt whatever name the players call it. It is unlikely 
to want to take the form of a human avatar, but some of its robotic subsystems 
could travel.

Possible Monsters
• Alien scavengers, who come seeking the ship once it reactivates.
• Alien bounty hunters seeking the ship’s crew or any transformed humans. This 

species and the species that created the ship are locked in a millennia-long war, 
and will stop at nothing to destroy each other.

• A transformed human who has suffered some instabilities and become monstrous 
in some dangerous way.

FURTHER INFORMATION ABOUT THE SHIP
Though the precise nature of the ship is up to the GM and the players to flesh out in 
their narrative, here are some suggested starting places for the ship:

• The ship crashed thousands of years ago and is badly damaged, remaining 
submerged until a recent hurricane in the area uncovered a small part. The AI put 
the ship and itself into hibernation mode (other than its occasional radio broad-
casts) until the characters reach it.

• The ship’s AI is friendly, interested in characters entering the Chrysalis Machine in 
order to enhance them so they can repair the ship.

• It should not be too difficult for players to access the interior of the ship. When 
they do, work to create a sense of awe in the players. Narratively, a good question 
to ask is, “What in the ship evokes awe from you, even in its damaged, barely 
operational state?”

• The contents of the ship are adaptable but may include: the Chrysalis Machine 
(strongly recommended), extensive sensor and transmission systems capable 
of hacking any device, armory of advanced weapons and armor (some armor 
is hard to remove once put on), space-time folding engines beyond human 
comprehension, matter-conversion or cosmic power plant, cloaking device, holo-
deck, personal teleportation booths, personal flight devices, braincorders, matter 
replicator, extensive neural technology allowing full interface with the ship and its 
databases

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Chrysalis Machine
The Chrysalis Machine can do amazing medical feats, including reconstruction of 
grave disfigurements, limb & organ regeneration, and restoration of youth. In addi-
tion, it can transform humans into the alien species that built the ship. This is not 
without its dangers, though — especially for youth with partially developed brains. 
The ship’s AI, however, will encourage any character between 20 and 59 years old to 
enter the Chrysalis Machine to become, after four weeks of stasis, something greater 
than human. Any player character who chooses to enter the machine will immediately 
become an NPC or the group’s powered character.

PAGE 134



The ship has no nefarious purpose, but the transformation process is risky, especially 
for anyone not 20–59 years old. Based on the character’s age, roll the following dice 
if they choose to enter the machine:

12–15 years old: 2d8, 2d6, 2d4 50–59 years old: 2d8
16–19 years old: 2d8, 1d6, 1d4 60–69 years old: 2d8, 1d6, 1d4
20–24 years old: 2d8 70–79 years old: 2d8, 2d6, 2d4
25–49 years old: 1d8 Younger than 12 or older than 79:

will not perform transformation

For each 1 rolled on a die, the defects resulting from the transformation become worse:
• A single 1: The character has some minor temporary defects that will stabilize in a 

few weeks.
• Two 1s: The character has some pronounced temporary defects that will stabilize in 

a few weeks, and some minor defects that are permanent.
• Three 1s: The character has many pronounced defects, some of which will stabilize 

in a few months, and some which will be permanent.
• Four 1s: The character has terminal defects that will result in death within days or 

weeks. The character might not look human anymore.
• Five 1s or more: The character suffers a messy death.

If four or more 1s are rolled, there will be a prompt for specimen disposal and initiation 
of clone & braintape restoration, with a default answer of “no.”

When a character is transformed, the following changes take place, though traits may 
altered, negated, or added by transformation defects:
Good

• The character gets 2d10 for Brains and Charm.
• If the character has been breathing pure oxygen for the past four hours, checks for 

fitness or endurance become 2d10.
• The character gains ambidexterity, the ability to do advanced math instantly, and 

photographic memory.
• The character is now highly resistant to any metabolic hazard. Checks against such 

ailments become 2d10.
Variable

• The character’s appearance becomes perfect in every way. Any unseen ailments 
instantly vanish.

• The character’s aging slows to 1/16th the rate of a normal 16-year-old human.
• Any mental trait that makes a character genuinely evil, psychopathic, or over- 

aggressive goes away.
• The character’s body has increased bulk and bone mass, but the character other-

wise looks human.
Bad

• The character’s calorie and fluid needs double; they need to sleep 12 hours daily.
• The character becomes intolerant of pain. Grit checks to resist, endure, or ignore 

pain are capped at d6.
• The character grows two hearts, both in the chest. The incapacitation of either 

heart kills the character. 
• The character will need to regularly breathe oxygen of at least twice the Earth’s 

standard concentration (e.g., a medical oxygen concentrator normally given to 
COPD patients) to function fully. If they do not do so for more than 8 hours, they 
suffer profound altitude sickness. They then must breathe concentrated or pure 
oxygen for at least half as long as they were breathing standard air. The character 
cannot go much above sea level or they will quickly suffer the above symptoms, 
even if breathing concentrated oxygen (only pure oxygen will suffice).

PAGE 135



Double Trouble at Skateland - Southridge, CA
by Elisa Teague

Content Warnings: cannibalism, mind control, missing children, mob justice, teen 
sexuality

Setting information
Being a kid can be a real drag in a suburban town like Southridge, California. Being 
about an hour-and-a-half drive outside of a large city center, the outskirt suburb lends 
little to do outside of school, the library, and one local grocery store with an attached 
coffee shop, providing the only places to meet with friends outside of Skateland, the 
local roller rink and the hottest (and only) hangout in town. Additionally, with the 
library just down the street, many kids make their way to hang out at the rink after 
school, waiting for their parents to get home from work.
 
It seems like a typical housing-development-meets-truckstop town, but there is an 
odd vibe around Southridge. Teens here seem to disappear at a much higher rate than 
the rest of the country, and while many talk about getting out of the sleepy town and 
into a big city for college, most kids that disappear haven‘t even finished high school.
 
Aside from the few stay-at-home parents, local shop owners and employees, and 
community service workers, most adults are absent from Southridge during the day. 
Those who do work in town without big-city paychecks often take second jobs to 
make ends meet. Latchkey kids are the norm, as parents don’t come home from 
their evening commute until dinnertime. It may be the nature of a small suburb, but 
neighbors all know each other in Southridge, and they all seem to have strange habits 
and relationships. Perhaps the adults are just as bored as the kids in this town, but to 
onlookers, it seems like something else is going on.

Setting Touchstones
Buffy the Vampire Slayer (film), The ’Burbs (film), The Lost Boys (film)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: What are the biggest problems in the town?
• Individual, Shared: Does your character work or have after-school duties? What 

are your character’s daily obligations?
• Individual, Shared: With which NPC does your character share a history?
• Individual, Shared or Private: Has your character had a strange encounter in any 

point of interest?
• Individual, Private: What is your character’s home life like, and how does your 

character feel about the neighborhood?
• Individual, Private: Which area of town gives you the most uneasy feelings?

PAGE 136



Possible Points of Interest
• Skateland, the roller rink where parents drop their kids off for what they think 

is wholesome fun in a town where there isn’t much else to do. Inside the rink, 
patrons’ senses are assaulted by a barrage of flashing disco lights from the 
darkened rink, booming music from the DJ booth combined with the familiar bells 
and whistles from the arcade machines, and the familiar odorous concoction of 
popcorn, hotdogs, and slurpee mix emanating from the snack bar. While skating 
is certainly the guise of the main attraction here, those who don’t skate partake 
in beating high scores in the arcade, strutting around in the latest fashions, 
awkwardly scoping out “make-out alley” in the back, or just people-watching. The 
real question on the latter is… who is watching you back?

• Southridge Library, while not nearly as large as the central library downtown, has 
a peculiarly wide range of topics.

• KRDJ “The Ridge,” a local radio station on Main Street that broadcasts from the 
second floor above Ridge Hardware — although nobody is ever seen entering or 
exiting.

• Coffee Stop N Shop, the only local grocery store since the town was founded. The 
attached coffee shop is busiest early in the morning, after school, and late nights.

• South 5 Truckstop, where travelers and truckers fill up on gas and oddball goods.
• The abandoned train tracks on the east side of town, just past the town cemetery. 

The sign says “no trespassing.”

Possible NPCs
• Clay Arrington, a senior at Southridge High and a known loner. His after-school job 

as the DJ at Skateland provides his only known interaction with others — a request 
sheet that hangs down from the inaccessible DJ booth.

• Ed Browning, owner/operator of Ridge Hardware and father of two. Ed is known to 
be able to fix anything and is popular with the kids for fixing their bikes. 

• Edna Farley, the “lunch lady” school cafeteria worker. She pulls double duty at the 
snack bar at Skateland, where the food is… questionable.

• Myrna Goldman, history teacher at Southridge High and librarian at Southridge 
Library. Though the locals joke that she is the town “spinster,” she’s actually a young, 
attractive bookworm. Myrna is seemingly just focused on her career. 

• Robert and Lydia Hernandez, eccentric owners of the South 5 Truckstop on the far 
edge of town, just off the highway. They both claim to have witnessed UFOs late at 
night. Catering to truckers on their way to the city, they are the first to greet new 
people or notice anyone leaving town.

• Nikki and Lisa, inseparable teens at the hub of all goings-on at Skateland. Rarely 
seen outside the rink and rumored to be homeschooled, the pair have an allure 
(nobody even knows their last names) that is both enticing and frightening.

• Rose Tanner, the owner and head waitress of the Coffee Stop N Shop, which is the 
oldest and longest-running business in Southridge. Known as just “Rosie” to most.

Possible Adventure Hooks
• A black van has been permanently parked in the vacant lot off Main Street, just 

behind the hardware store and radio station. People are suddenly acting strange 
and somewhat non-respondent, and the only noticeable connection is that they all 
seem to be humming the same tune. Is the van connected to these events, or is it 
is all a coincidence?

• Teens are going missing from Southridge at an alarming rate. While missing- 
persons reports are being filed, the local police don’t seem to be doing much about 
it. The latest missing teen is Bethany Campbell, the head cheerleader at Southridge 
High, last seen at midnight in “make-out alley” behind Skateland.

• Truckers have stopped making deliveries to Southridge, severely impacting the 
local shops and restaurants. Nobody knows why deliveries aren’t being made, but 
at least one eatery still has a mysterious supply of food.

PAGE 137



• The neighborhood watch has suddenly become an angry mob, hell-bent on 
“protecting the children” with no verifiable threat. However, they have no problem 
accusing nearly every resident in town in an out-of-control witch hunt, making it 
difficult to tell which threat could be real.

• The annual “Skate and Shake” competition is coming up, where the winner gets to 
go to nationals to compete. However, it seems like some people have resorted to 
supernatural cheating to get their ticket out of town.

Possible Threats
• A gang of trouble-making teens have been breaking into homes (oddly, only at 

night), looking for something specific, it seems.
• An unknown organization has been spotted around town in mysterious vehicles. 

Is this a secret government agency or something even worse?
• A group known as the “Fang Club” have booked the library every Tuesday for 

secret meetings. They’re averse to new members, so others can’t tell if this is 
a dog sweater-knitting meet-up, a vampire fan-fiction club, or something much 
more sinister.

Possible Powered Characters
• A well-known resident who returns home after receiving a blood transfusion in 

the wake of an accident, and now has strange powers.
• A kind and unfairly feared homeless man who sleeps under the overpass and is 

the eyes and ears of the town.
• The little sister of a PC, whose presence has turned from annoying to helpful as 

her powers and perspective are revealed.

Possible Monsters
• A vampire queen, who commands her minions from afar to do her bidding.
• A gremlin that tinkers with wheeled transport, from skates to large trucks, causing 

both minor mischief (humorous) and major mayhem (deadly).
• A serial-killer alien that has been harvesting lungs from its victims — leaving the 

rest of the corpses — to temporarily aid its breathing until it can find a way home.

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Resistance to Mind Control
Southridge (and possibly other towns) is a place where, on more occasions than is 
comfortable, certain foes will attempt to influence residents by supernatural and other 
means. While this is nearly impossible to avoid, characters with a high combination of 
Grit and Charm are more easily able to spot when someone is trying to trick or control 
them, allowing them to curb the effects of the mind control.

To calculate if a character is resistant to mind control, double the level of the mind 
control; that is the target. Then, roll Grit and Charm and add the total together to 
determine if the roll is successful. (If either die explodes, reroll that die and add it to the 
total, per the normal rules.)

PAGE 138



Ghosts & Steel - East Berwick, PA
by Josh Thaler

Content Warnings: government conspiracies, memory loss, memory erasing, Nazis

Setting information
East Berwick, Pennsylvania is a small town on the banks of the Susquehanna River, 
one that hasn’t been the same since the flood of ’72 that destroyed many of the 
homes and businesses in the area. But, along the Susquehanna River, that isn’t 
remarkable. Lots of steel towns suffered after the flood.
 
Like citizens in a lot of these towns, people in East Berwick are struggling to figure out 
how to make ends meet. Right now, it seems like the best way to make it is to make 
it out — either by going to college or moving to Pittsburgh for work. There are a few 
folks who insist the jobs will come back, but no one really believes that anymore.
 
Unlike a lot of towns, though, East Berwick is unusual in that no boys have been born 
to its citizens in the past five years. In the baby boom following World War II, fewer 
boy children than expected were born, but it seemed like it could just be the result of 
chance. As the years went on, though, the birth rate for boys continued to drop. Girls 
were born healthy, but for some reason, fewer and fewer boys were.
 
In lighter news, the town has a big World War II reenactment every year, selecting a 
different key battle and drawing folks from all around Luzerne County to watch and 
participate. Many of East Berwick’s boys died in the war, and it’s the town’s way of 
remembering them — and remembering when the town was prospering.

Now, the only place where work seems stable is the Repository, a government facility 
on the edge of town. Twenty or so members of the town work there, though they 
refuse to talk about their work. They go as far as to claim not to remember what they 
do there, usually saying something like, “I don’t really know what I do there, but it pays 
pretty well!” Some actually believe them — that they actually don’t remember what 
they do there.

Setting Touchstones
Indiana Jones (film series), The Librarians (TV series), Warehouse 13 (TV series)

PAGE 139



Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: In this module, at least one of the characters has a powerful artifact that 

the government would want secured in the Repository. Describe the artifact. 
Which character has it? How did it come into the group’s possession? How much 
do the other characters know about it?

• Group: Which of the characters is named after a parent’s beloved pet?
• Individual, Shared: What’s one rumor that you’ve heard about the town?
• Individual, Private: Do you believe in cryptids?
• Individual, Private: What do you believe is causing the shift in births in the town?

Possible Points of Interest
• The Susquehanna River, which forms the southern border of the town. This is the 

one that flooded, all but destroying the town. Still, it’s fun to swim in. That’s free.
• The Porter Mansion, a house built by Clarence Q. Porter shortly after he returned 

from the Civil War. Only a few months after the completion of the house, though, 
Porter died mysteriously. Each Christmas, the town’s historical society organizes a 
candlelight event that some people say always has strange occurrences.

• Grittengander’s Covered Bridge, which leads to an old farm on the outskirts of 
town. Some kids like to go out there on dares, since everyone has heard the bridge 
is haunted. It’s always somehow a few degrees colder on the bridge.

• East Berwick School, the K–12 school in town, home of the East Berwick Ironbacks.
• The abandoned steel mill, which was built on the banks of the Susquehanna. When 

all shipping was along the river, that was great. When the flood hit, it destroyed 
the factory, which is now partially submerged and dangerous to enter — but too 
much of a local landmark to demolish.

• That mysterious house with a big, scary dog near the baseball field. It has a fence 
all around it, and no one has ever seen into the yard. No one knows the old man 
who lives there. Well, none of the kids, at least. All of the adults know that it’s 
Frank Garraway, a really nice old guy who’s just kind of agoraphobic. 

• The Repository, a mysterious government compound on the edge of town. It’s 
heavily guarded and surrounded by an electrified chain-link fence.

Possible NPCs
• Clifford Bennett, a tryhard step-parent who moved to the area recently to marry 

one of the character’s parents. Like everyone who works at the Repository, Clifford 
claims not to know what happens there.

• Dr. James Cornwell, PhD, a tall, broad, jovial archaeologist working at Luzerne 
Community College — the only archaeologist, in fact. He has traveled as far as 
Mexico and seen the Incan pyramids, though he’s not an expert on those.

• Darlene Evans, the town librarian and trusted adult for all young folks seeking 
more information about anything. Rumor has it that she can find out anything that 
anyone has ever known, if you give her 24 hours. 

• Madison Holland, head of the East Berwick Society of Historians and docent at the 
Porter Mansion. Given his exuberance about the mansion and the town’s history, he 
can seem a little weird at first — and his penchant for wearing capes doesn’t help 
that. But when you get to know him, he’s warm and wonderful.

• George Kirk, the umpire for the Little League. Kind of a grumpy old guy, but good 
at heart and incredibly polite.

• Clifford “Crash” Porter, a Vietnam War vet, conspiracy theorist, and avid cryptid 
hunter. He’s a descendant of Clarence Q. Porter, but he isn’t afforded the same 
respect as his last name would suggest.

• Vanessa Seung-Min, a young business owner who recently opened up a store 
selling pen-and-paper RPGs, wargame supplies, and comic books.

PAGE 140



Possible Adventure Hooks
• One of the characters’ grandparents give them an artifact for safekeeping, one 

that’s too potentially powerful to be entrusted to the Repository and their dubious 
goals with the goods stored there.

• An artifact in the gang’s possession activates, putting all of them in danger — and 
drawing the attention of the feds in dark suits and the Nazi Underground.

• The artifact activates, revealing a puzzle that must be solved before calamity strikes. 
Whoever solves it, though, will gain a power too great to entrust to anyone else.

• During a sleepover, one of your friends steals your artifact as a joke, not knowing 
what it is. While they have it, they vanish suddenly. You have to find them before 
anyone else can — and the feds and Nazis are looking for them, too!

• During the Candlelight Christmas at the Porter Mansion, the artifact you brought 
with you starts acting funny — and you think Clarence Q. Porter might be the secret 
to figuring out why it’s so important.

• The Nazi Underground is using the WWII reenactment as a cover for bringing some 
of their members out of suspended animation. 

• The party decides to research one of the cryptids in the area with Crash Porter’s 
help. He proves to be more canny than anyone gave him credit for.

Possible Threats
• The people who run the Repository will go to any lengths to obtain and protect 

the artifacts they have been entrusted to safeguard. Perhaps they mean well, or 
perhaps they’re experimenting on the artifacts to exploit them.

• Another government agency has suddenly shown up, all wearing dark suits. Are 
they even with the government, or are they something even more sinister?

• Though Nazis can’t walk around a town freely in full Nazi regalia without being 
punched in the face by loyal Americans, that’s not the case during the WWII 
reenactment. Some say that there are real Nazis, part of the Nazi Underground, 
running around then.

Possible Powered Characters
• The ghost of Clarence Q. Porter, who needs the party’s help to solve the mystery 

of his sudden death so that he can finally rest peacefully.
• A character exposed to the “mystic radiation” of the Repository and now starting 

to manifest strange powers that they can’t quite control.

Possible Monsters
• A super-powered Nazi, awakened from suspended animation, who doesn’t know 

that WWII is over.
• A thunderbird — a giant dark-brown or black bird with a massive wingspan, strong 

enough to carry off a small child.
• The Susquehanna Seabeast. Even though it’s in the river, the name stuck. Reports 

about what it looks like vary wildly — some say it looks like the Loch Ness Monster, 
while others describe a fanged, scaly humanoid.

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Artifacts
Artifacts are powerful items, and judicious use of them is key. At the start of the game, 
the party should have one artifact, and part of the back story should be how they came 
to possess that artifact. Though the Repository has many artifacts inside of it, charac-
ters shouldn’t be able to simply venture in and get more. Any new artifacts they get — if 
any at all — should feel special and should be the start and culmination of great trouble. 
In terms of the powers they convey, think about things like the powered character’s 
psychic abilities, which would be incredibly powerful, and difficult, for a human to be 
able to control. Beyond that, it’s up to the GM and players how they want to incorporate 
artifacts into their games.

PAGE 141



Minor Threat - Washington, DC
by Ben Walker

Content Warnings: gang violence, Nazis, police violence, racism, teen druge use, 
teen violence

Setting information
“The music is a conversation [speaking to] those values of community, entrepreneur-
ship, fellowship, giving every single person a voice whether that’s through a shoutout 
or through the call and response or through a dance move, or showing what kind of 
fashion you’re wearing.” – Charles Stephenson Jr. 

There aren’t many things for a kid to do in the District in the late ’80s and early ’90s. 
If you’re out on the street, you’re hassled by cops. If you’re at home, you’re hassled by 
your parents. If you head to a store, it’s buy something or get out — with the omni-
present camera and wannabe cop breathing down your neck for fear you may justify 
their salary by grabbing a candy bar. No one has any money, not even most grown-
ups, but it seems like flashier cars are being driven through your neighborhoods at 
increasing speeds. 
 
Your school is built like a prison, and police walk the halls. Every month cops stand in 
front of your class and tell you that drug dealers will try to make you smoke pot and 
Crack Is Whack! and Just Say No! But you’ve never been offered anything, especially 
not for free. Everyone says your neighborhood is full of crack babies, but you’ve 
never seen one. Anywhere you go outside your neighborhood, you’re watched like a 
criminal. You have no power, and nothing you do is ever acceptable or accepted.
 
But at least there’s music, and the Atlantic Club is the place you can find it. It’s the 
only club open to all ages and as early as 9:30 p.m., so even the most conservative 
parent can let their kid go there for a half hour or so.
 
Somehow they manage to get bands from around the world — and there are always 
the unique sounds of bands brewing in the District. People come from everywhere to 
hear it, but some folks keep trying to silence it. 

Setting Touchstones
Chuck Brown (musician), go-go (music subgenre), harDCore (music subgenre), 
straight edge (subculture), Mr. T (actor)

PAGE 142



Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: What’s Playing at the Atlantic Club tonight? What genre or mix? Hip hop 

can play with hardcore punk or new wave with funk or any mix of bands. Have fun 
coming up with band names. 

• Individual, Shared: What is your scene? Hardcore? Go-go? Hip-hop? Straight edge? 
New wave? What group (if any) weirds you out?

• Individual, Shared: How did you find the Atlantic Club?
• Individual, Private: How does the music you listen to influence your life? What song 

speaks to you the most?
• Individual, Private: How does your character feel about the increase of White Laces?
• Individual, Private: How do you feel about the cops shutting down the other music 

venues? Do you think it will happen here?

Possible Points of Interest
• The Atlantic Club, the venue where everything takes place. Bands meet and people 

from the District mix with fans and bands from around the world. So far no one has 
gotten seriously hurt, not even in the pit. 

• The Copper Diner, a 24-hour place for folks to sit and get food. Most of the punks — 
and, strangely, the new-wave kids — tend to hold court in their little booths before 
or after shows.

• Mountain Country BBQ, another 24-hour place where you mostly get go-go lovers, 
hip-hop heads, and backpackers trading tapes and fueling up for a long night. 

• Madame’s Organ, another venue, quieter, older — mostly for jazz, blues, and soul. 
Former burlesque club, but now all ages friendly. The owners are known to help out 
kids who are in a pinch if their parents are hurting them or if they are being bullied 
by others for their gender or sexuality. The Purple Laces and Yellow Laces hang out 
here along with out-of-town bands before they go on at the Atlantic.

• El Guapo’s, the only neutral ground besides the Atlantic. At least someone from 
every clique stops here. The tacos are overpriced, but its lobby has the only remaining 
cigarette machine in the city, and vending machines can’t check IDs. 

Possible NPCs
• Big Young’n, all-around musician for Untroubled Funk. They call it “go-go” cause 

it goes and goes, and Big Young’n just keeps showing up for the set. Never misses 
a practice, understudies everyone’s parts. Can play bass or congas, sing lead, run 
sound, and even do some production. The reason Untroubled Funk stays untroubled 
is that, when something goes wrong, Young’n can fix it. They lend their help to 
other bands making a start. Never seen outside of their shapeless hoodie.

• Lucy, Lenka, and Lilian Krcmarova, daughters of Czech bluegrass legend Vlastik 
Krcmar. They came to the U.S. to have a place to play and write their own music. 
The hardcore punk scene is enriched by having some actual anarchists! All three 
sing in close harmony and they each play various instruments. They dress as closely 
to each other as possible for maximum confusion among their fans.

• Guy Oboe, bassist for Fusilli?! Manic, enthusiastic, and energetic?! Might be the 
most upbeat guy in hardcore?! Always ends sentences with an upward inflection?!

• Hank Rowling, slam poet and frontman for Plaid Flagg. Military haircut, black 
t-shirt, and crisp, clean BDUs are not usually associated with punk or poetry — but 
former cadet Hank Rowling felt a pull away from school and into the streets, where 
he helped organize literacy groups and arts programs in the District with military 
efficiency. Bit of a clean freak. 

• Nicola Stanyk, late-shift manager for the SIlver DIner. She’s seen it all and some of 
it twice. Almost impossible to shock and ready with an ear at all times of the night. 
Rarely seen during the day except on overcast evenings.

PAGE 143



Possible Adventure Hooks
• Hank is trying to get a local group to put on a production of Pippin, but someone 

keeps sabotaging the equipment of any of the musicians he gets to agree to play. 
Props have gone missing, and accidents keep happening.

• There’s a battle of the bands, but a lot of the fighting might be in the crowd. Rumor 
has it the Red Laces are looking to start trouble if they see any bands “with unde-
sirables in them.”

• A cop appeared on television saying, “It’s this go-go. If you bring go-go in, you’re 
going to have problems.” The District has listened. Cops everywhere are raiding 
buildings that have flyers for go-go, have had bands play, or are even associated. 
They’ve started jailing or hospitalizing people who are just in the crowd. 

• A developer is looking to buy up a nearby area and has set their sights on the Atlantic 
Club as the centerpiece of their renovations. They have already had police evacuate 
and burn an entire neighborhood that wouldn’t sell, under a loose pretense of 
“harboring drug dealers” and “super-predators.” 

• Rumor has it the president’s kid has been giving their Secret Service detail the 
slip to go out and enjoy a little teen rebellion and good music. Could they be here 
tonight? There’s an awful lot of people in suits with earpieces and a lot more 
reporters than usual.

Possible Threats
• D.A.R.E. task force: These cops trying to “rid their streets of drugs” are one part 

true believers in colorful mascot outfits and one part squads that took over and 
torched an entire city block for having undesirables. If you run into them, hope 
they’re the former.

• White Laces and Red Laces: See “Bootlace Code” section below.
• The Dark Alliance: A group within the CIA deliberately giving crack and mili-

tary surplus weapons to gangs. Some are even infiltrating gangs to ramp up the 
violence in order to justify “cleaning up” areas.

• The Blackened Cross: An old medal, badge, or pin with a burned and cut black “X” 
in it. If you wear it you are intensely aware of anything you find uncomfortable, 
abhorrent, or frightening in your vicinity. A person afraid of spiders sees all of the 
spiders in a room, even if it is crowded and hallucinates spiders even when there 
are none. A person who fears a specific clique or group will always feel surrounded 
and outnumbered by their enemies. It can only be discarded after one has kissed 
the thing they fear.

Possible Powered Characters
• MacRough the Crime Hound, a former policeman and his dog who were sniffing 

out drugs in schools but ran afoul of a chemistry experiment gone wrong. A 
disfigured half-bloodhound half-man who hides in the Metro tunnels and tries 
to protect kids. He has now seen the real causes of the drug epidemic and can 
hear (and smell) the state of the streets. His desire to help elevate kids out of the 
school-to-prison pipeline is unchanged, but he continually tries to figure out how 
to do so without turning on his former co-workers.

• An old concrete lion, thrown out from its former position guarding the Taft Bridge 
after a restoration accident. The Perry Lion was put in a storage area outside the 
beltway but is now missing. Some older urban apartments have been found with 
broken, shabby but surprisingly robust statuary from time to time. Sometimes 
surveyors or folks looking to “renew” an area can end up missing, clawed, or 
crushed... 

• Molly Prankster, a ghost who is inhabiting her old boots. She wants to see her 
younger sibling graduate high school and survive to do so. Those who help find 
themselves with miraculously clean new clothes or tickets to a show they like. 
Those who hinder find themselves dancing until their feet bleed through or 
flogged in the pit until they die.

PAGE 144



Possible Monsters
• Almond Jack, who always faintly smells of the almonds they crack against each 

other in their hands. In the pit, or in the press of a crowd, or under the thrum of 
conversation in a crowded diner, Almond Jack whispers something poisonous 
in your ear. They tell you something horrific you have always secretly suspected 
about yourself or someone you love. At some point in the next day, you will fight 
or harm that person. Few people survive. The only cure is to purge the poison 
with the truth. 

• La Llorona, a woman with empty eyes that weep blood or black tears. It is said 
that if you wake at night and see her you will soon die in gang or police crossfire. 
To live you must make amends to all you have wronged and avoid anyone armed.

BOOTLACE CODE:
While funk fans wear their velvet and the punks wear their torn t-shirts, everyone wore 
boots. Timberlands or Doc Martens — it doesn’t matter much. But the color of your 
laces does matter.

• White Laces: White laces are for supremacist Nazi skinheads bent on infiltrating 
clubs and not starting fights to show how reasonable they can be. White Laces 
will deliberately taunt and attempt to provoke other groups into violence to make 
them look bad and will try to try to recruit for their ideology.

• Red Laces: When a place becomes friendly enough to White Laces, Red Laces 
will show up and attempt to beat or kill anyone who isn’t white enough. Some-
times they will try to make it look accidental in the mosh pit. Usually they will just 
do it in a place where people are afraid to call the cops for fear the police will burn 
everything.

• Yellow Laces: On the other side, people wearing these laces are the ones willing 
to throw down verbally with the White Laces or physically with the Red Laces. 
Anyone sporting Yellow laces can be counted on to be anti-fascist and anti-Nazi.

• Purple Laces: Queer teens often wear these laces in their boots, an expression of 
queer pride in a world just starting to acknowledge their existence. While these 
laces will make teens a target for the Red Laces, they will also help signal to other 
Purple Laces and their Yellow Laces allies.

• Black Laces: Insisting on being on neither side of this struggle, Black Laces are 
the kids who are “just there for the music.” Some of them don’t know enough 
about the struggle to understand why it’s important, and others are simply in-
different. Though some Black Laces will help if it won’t harm them, others are 
actively disengaged.

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: Teenagers With Attitude
In this module, player characters cannot be children or adults. All player characters 
must be teens only.

PAGE 145



The Culling in Cheyenne - Cheyenne, WY
by Ross Watson

Content Warnings: human sacrifice, mind control, missing children, missing pets, 
violence against animals

Setting information
Author’s Note: Cheyenne is a real place, but I’ve taken some artistic liberties to fit the 
genre. – Ross

Cheyenne is the state capital of Wyoming and a tourist destination for fans of history 
and the Old West. It has a small-town feel despite being one of the larger cities in 
Wyoming (population around 30,000 people), where kids ride their bikes through 
the neighborhoods and others ride horses on the fringes where the frontier meets 
the suburbs. Cheyenne is usually a sleepy town, but the annual Frontier Days rodeo 
celebration brings a party atmosphere for two solid weeks every year.
 
The town has been struggling economically for some time, staying afloat primarily 
through the rail industry and tourism. One of the main landmarks of the city is the 
Cheyenne Depot downtown, a major train hub and museum. The U.S. Air Force has a 
major presence in town thanks to Warren Air Force Base. Both airmen and researchers 
from the air base like to explore the town and environments, often taking tours from 
local businesses or supporting animal rescue sites.
 
The kids in Cheyenne don’t have a lot to do most of the year, though winter-time means 
plenty of opportunities for sledding, snow forts, and snow sculptures. Teenagers 
either plan for what they’ll do as soon as they manage to leave town or make out on 
the hidden trails surrounding the city proper.

Setting Touchstones
It (novel), The Monster Squad (film), Something Wicked This Way Comes (novel), 
Stand by Me (film)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: What are some notable landmarks in your neighborhood?
• Individual, Shared: What rumors about spooky stuff in town or the surrounding area 

interest you the most?
• Individual, Shared: What activities does your character do during the winter?
• Individual, Shared or Private: What is your character’s favorite pet animal? Are they 

currently missing?
• Individual, Private: How does the rush of the yearly Frontier Days celebration affect 

your character?

PAGE 146



• Individual, Private: What is your character’s favorite place to go for fun?
• Individual, Private: What about the missing animals and pets scares you the most?

Possible Points of Interest
Lighthearted

• The Big Boy Steam Engine train, in Holiday Park, near the center of town.
• Cheyenne Depot, a train museum and old-timey railroad hub.
• The Frontier Days Fairgrounds and Rodeo, home to all kinds of “state fair” style 

food, games, and events.
Serious

• Francis E. Warren Air Force Base, the location of top-secret research and a strategic 
missile base. Haunted by U.S. cavalry soldiers from the Old West.

• The old riverbed, a spooky place deep in the woods where the ancient spirit was 
sealed away in the ancient past.

• An abandoned train car, filled with the skeletal remains of dozens of missing pets.
Either

• Medicine Bow National Forest, full of mystery, wild animals, and strange weather.
• The Outlaw Trail, once used by Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, a hidden path 

near the city yet remote and isolated.
• The train tracks, a set of old rails that haven’t been used for a century, leading off 

toward the old riverbed.

Possible NPCs
• Dr. Emil Albright, a former head researcher for the U.S. Air Force. This highly intel-

ligent but impatient man left all that behind and now teaches junior high science 
classes. Many believe that he is carrying out research (some say UFOs, others claim 
cryptids) on weekends in the surrounding areas of Cheyenne.

• Major Ike Bauer, the U.S. Air Force liason to the research facility on Warren AFB. 
Major Bauer is entirely focused on results. Nothing else matters to this driven career 
soldier.

• Janine Callahan, the elected town mayor. This ambitious woman intends to let 
nothing — especially any hare-brained stories about “weird stuff” — interfere with the 
Frontier Days rodeo celebration, something she believes will bring a much-needed 
boost to the town’s economy.

• Jared Church, a “cool” teenager who likes to hang out at the mall. Jared is friendly 
to younger kids and often acts a game master for various RPGs. He’s considering 
trying out as a competitive video gamer and trains at the local arcade. Jared can be 
counted on to be interested in anything “weird” or unusual in town.

• Drew Dennis, an Old West historian who loves giving tours and curates the Frontier 
Days Old West Museum. A fixture of the town, Mr. Dennis is well meaning but 
considered a bore by many who know him, especially kids. He knows quite a bit 
about Native American and Old West folk tales and legends about Cheyenne and 
the Medicine Bow National Forest.

• John Harpole, a taciturn, weathered man who is the town sheriff. John spends most 
of his time sitting around or busting tourists for drunk driving during Frontier Days. 
He’s seen a lot of strange things out on the range, but has never brought back any 
proof of his suspicions. Friendly, but reserved.

• Markus Holtz, a scary “German guy” living on the outskirts of town. Markus is, in 
fact, quite normal and aching for social contact. He keeps a sharp eye on kids in his 
neighborhood, just trying to keep them out of trouble.

• Simon Honovi, a mean-spirited, short-tempered rancher. Simon keeps prize- 
winning horses on his land just outside of town. He has zero patience for nosy kids 
and has been known to sic his dogs on strangers.

PAGE 147



Possible Adventure Hooks
• All over town, pets have gone missing over the last three weeks. “Have you seen…” 

flyers have started cropping up in corner stores and on telephone poles all across 
the kids’ neighborhood. At the same time, hunters in Medicine Bow National Forest 
have reported a “rabid bear” after encountering gruesome sites where local wildlife 
has been slaughtered and devoured. Some clues left behind seem to link with an 
old Native American legend of an evil spirit — a Manitou — that was supposedly 
sealed away centuries ago in a cave near the mouth of a river.

• In the depths of winter, several local teens that went necking in the woods have 
returned with a particularly strange attitude. They seem far more helpful and inter-
ested in the lives of their families, but something about them just seems… off.

• There’s a brand-new, mysterious carnival ride featured during this year’s Frontier 
Days. While most adults are interested only in the rodeo, the teens and kids are all 
talking about this unusual new ride. However, not everyone who goes in the ride 
comes out on the other side...

• A shrieking whistle splits the night during autumn, on the same day as the mys-
terious disappearance of local historian Mr. Dennis. Some say he went to the train 
depot, while other claim to have heard a chugging engine on the abandoned tracks.

Possible Threats
• The U.S. Air Force has a secret program in place to study UFOs, cryptids, and other 

unusual phenomena in the region. Dr. Albright used to work for this particular 
project team, but left due to disagreements with the current ruthless military 
liaison. 

Possible Powered Characters
• A local teen, the seventh son of a seventh son, who can see creatures and 

phenomena hidden from normal people. His abusive parents consider him a 
“troubled child.”

• A rare midwest Chupacabra that’s far more friendly than he appears. However, 
he’s being hunted by both the manitou and the U.S. Air Force, so he tries to 
remain hidden despite an intense curiosity about the modern world. 

Possible Monsters
• The Manitou, a corrupted spirit of hunger. This evil spirit takes the form of a bear-

like, bipedal animal with jagged fangs and claws. It has been eating pets — but 
it’s only a matter of time before people become targets. It terrifies animals, which 
flee as soon as they see it. The Manitou can climb preternaturally quickly, even up 
man-made structures no bear could climb. It is easily distracted by food and is 
compelled to eat anything reasonable thrown its way. According to legend, the 
Manitou can be banished by cleansing the bear form with flowing water.

• Mr. Darque, a genteel-appearing man who operates unusual carnival rides during 
this year’s Frontier Days celebration. A sinister being, Mr. Darque “harvests” young 
teens to devour their essence and retain his immortal life. According to Old West 
folk tales, dust devils ward him away and silver bullets may prove lethal.

PAGE 148



Between the Cracks - Spicerville, NY
by Scott Woodard

Content Warnings: cults, demonic possession, drowning, hosts

Setting information
Spicerville is a small, nondescript village of 2,600 residents, located within the town 
of Upton that spans the Erie Canal in western New York. Since its founding back in 
1864, Spicerville has been known primarily for its agriculture, with several sprawling 
(and rival) farms that radiate out from its core, along with its respectable school 
district, and its all-volunteer fire department.
 
Most residents of Spicerville are totally unaware of the strangeness that exists just 
beneath the surface and between the cracks, preferring to live their day-to-day lives 
raising their families, mowing their lawns, and enjoying summertime barbecues.
 
But the kids of Spicerville know better, since there are few options for entertainment 
in the village, and most spend their days exploring the woods, swimming and fishing 
in the canal, or finding any excuse imaginable to get out of the village and visit some 
of the surrounding — and far more exciting — communities accessible by bike.
 
Those willing to see the village with an open mind occasionally catch glimpses of the 
parallel worlds that touch and collide with our own. Sometimes those glimpses are of 
unparalleled beauty, but at other times are the dark and twisted stuff of nightmares.

Setting Touchstones
“Children of the Corn” (short story), Children of the Stones (TV miniseries)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: What outdoor activities do you get up to during the winter months?
• Group: Do citizens of Spicerville take any unusual precautions when exploring the 

areas around the village? Crosses? Holy water, etc.?
• Individual, Shared: What is your favorite time of year in Spicerville?
• Individual, Shared: Has your family lived in the area since the village’s founding?
• Individual, Private: Do you feel so comfortable here that you never want to leave, or 

do you feel the desire to flee forever?
• Individual, Private: Do you suspect that one or more of your family members is 

engaged in something secret and possibly nefarious?
• Individual, Private: What secret are you keeping from the group?

PAGE 149



Possible Points of Interest
• The corner lot, with a large Victorian house has stood empty since the entire family 

who lived there went missing in the late 1950s.
• Bathym’s Chamber, the subterranean ceremonial chamber devoted to Bathym, 

duke of Hell. It is accessible through a hidden door under the stairs leading up to 
the second floor Masonic Temple or through a trapdoor under a rug in the back of 
Cloris Flowers.

• Hungry Pond, a perfectly round blackwater pond deep in the woods. Animal bones 
lie strewn about the water’s edge. The pond holds an ancient, voracious secret.

• Saint Quiteria’s Cemetery, a Catholic graveyard where the spirits of the dead speak 
to those willing to listen. Adjacent to this is Saint Quiteria’s Church, where the un-
moving third bell tolls 13 once a year on the anniversary of the tragedy that befell 
a bellringer in 1941.

• The Erie Canal, referred to by many (especially the local children) as the “Eerie” 
Canal. Bodies been recovered from its slow-moving waters over the decades, and 
on certain nights a thick, luminescent fog rises from the water’s surface.

• Soldier’s Memorial Tower, a crumbling (and haunted) Civil War monument with a 
broken, winding staircase.

• Sumac Cave, a narrow, muddy network of natural caves that is believed to house a 
valuable treasure.

Possible NPCs
• Trey Hodges, a fourth-grade English teacher at Carter Elementary on the north side 

of the village. Trey also runs the A/V club and is extremely popular with the uncool 
crowd, who all admire him for his love of monster movies and tabletop role-playing 
games. Trey drives a purple Triumph TR3 named Frodo.

• Don J. Kelly, the warm, welcoming face of Spicerville. It’s not uncommon to see the 
mayor’s grinning mug on yellowed posters tacked up around Spicerville recom-
mending that visitors “stay a while.” Unknown to most, Kelly is also the head of the 
secret group that meets in the basement of the Harmony Masonic Temple.

• Mark O’Connor, the friendly, middle-aged owner of the Book Vault, a cluttered shop 
located right in the heart of the village. Most visitors come to pick through the 
stacks for a paperback or two, but Mark’s back room houses a respectable collec-
tion of occult books and other esoteric texts. One need only know the secret word 
to gain access: “Lovecraft.”

• Elsa Winkler, the oldest living resident of Spicerville. Elsa has seen it all. Alas, Elsa 
has also been blind for most of her life, but her other senses are so well-attuned 
that, if asked, she often describes things using (accurate) colors. No one but Elsa 
knows exactly how many years she has walked upon the Earth, but the truth would 
surprise you!

Possible Adventure Hooks
• Each night, strange, pulsing lights have been spotted in the windows of Shelby 

Manor, which everyone knows is abandoned.
• The owner of Cloris Flowers, a small florist adjacent to the Masonic Temple, is 

overheard in the Spicerville Diner talking about strange whispers and foul, sulfurous 
odors coming up from under the floor of her shop.

• A few days back, a group of hunters exited the woods with one of their party and 
his dog missing. Search parties have been scouring the forest, but so far there has 
been no sign of the missing hunter. Might he have wandered too close to the murky 
black waters of Hungry Pond?

• While mid-winter depression isn’t all that unusual around these parts, this sudden 
strange wave of melancholy and sadness in the heart of summer seems undefeat-
able. And the first recorded suicide in 10 years is certainly a troubling development.

PAGE 150



• Walking the rows is an old tradition in Spicerville where those seeking calm, focus, 
and vitality stroll through the rows of corn after the Fourth of July. But there are 
rules to this game, and those who break them are never heard from again.

• Every year in early June, the Spicerville Summertime Festival and Carnival comes 
to town. No one claims responsibility for the event, yet it has been a local tradition 
since the 1930s. Stay out of the Hall of Mirrors!

Possible Threats
• The secret and ancient order of Bathym, a demon-worshipping cult that has been 

trying to summon a demon for almost a century.

Possible Powered Characters
• Elsa Winkler is a timeless being from another dimension who was blinded and 

exiled to our world centuries ago. While she is charming and seemingly benevolent, 
she will stop at nothing to find her way back home.

• Vernon Walker keeps to himself, rarely speaking to anyone but the headstones at 
Saint Quiteria’s Cemetery. Vernon is actually the ghost of one of the original canal 
workers who died tragically in 1820, trampled by a team of spooked horses.

Possible Monsters
• Bathym, the demonic duke of Hell who knows the virtues of herbs and crops and 

is master of the astral plane. As long as sacrifices are made in his honor, Bathym is 
appeased.

• The face of a trapped god that draws people and animals into the depths of its cold, 
blackwater lair deep within the woods.

• Malevolent green spirit-forms with one foot in the old world. They gather outside 
children’s windows at midnight, looking to make eye contact — with fatal results.

ADJUSTMENTS TO RULES
Rule Addition: The Willies
Whether you were born with the ability or you acquired it through some other means, 
you are inherently sensitive to supernatural powers. You might get goosebumps in 
the presence of psychic energy, you might visualize a colored aura around powered 
characters, or you might be able to home in on the source of mystical powers within 
a short distance, like the needle of a compass (you literally feel something in your 
bones). The Willies works just like the Intuitive strength, except that when you spend an 
Adversity Token, the GM must reveal details specific to psychic emanations.

PAGE 151



Butter Tarts and Broken Bones 
- Tenapanguisine, ON

by Jim Zub and the Danger Dice Gang

Content Warnings: bullying, economic entrap-
ment, freezing, missing children, witchcraft

Setting information
A small rural town in northern Ontario, Tenapanguisine 
(or “the Tens” if you’re a local) is much like the famous 
butter tarts that bring in tourists from miles around — 
sickly sweet at first, but a crumbly mess once you dig 
a little deeper. 

The rustic kindness that seems so inviting to people 
passing through doesn’t hold up to scrutiny from the 
many unemployed loggers and their families that 
populate the town. The economic heyday of the Tens 
is well behind it, and a pervasive sense of desperation 
has taken its place. People don’t stay here because 
they want to. They just don’t know where else to go.

Making things even more awkward is a series of odd 
local rituals that permeate day-to-day life in the Tens. 
Locals never park their cars facing north. Old ladies 
from the Craft Club always burn sage the morning 
after a full moon. Every kid receives a tree-shaped 
pendant on their 12th birthday. Visitors and towns-
people who don’t know any better assume these little 
quirks are just part of the local flavor, cute ways 
to make the Tens stand out in a cottage country 
dotted with boroughs looking to monetize their folksy 
charm. However, for those with an eye toward local 
history, they tell a very different story. These habits 
have evolved naturally for one reason only: keeping 
evil at bay. 

Note: The Tens is a setting dotted with quirky 
elements to keep players guessing. It’s a good fit for 
off-kilter and macabre adventures in the style of Twin 
Peaks or Near Dark.

Setting Touchstones
Near Dark (film), Twin Peaks (TV series)

Alternate Town Creation Questions
• Group: What are some notable local establishments that have managed to stay in 

business despite hard economic times?
• Individual, Shared: How close are you or your family involved with baking — and 

specifically the Big Tart, the town’s most famous tourist stop? As a side note, do 
you still enjoy the taste of butter tarts? 

PAGE 152



• Individual, Shared: How closely is your family tied to the logging industry that 
once dominated the town’s economy?

• Individual, Shared: What rumors have you heard about where these local super-
stitions came from?

• Individual, Shared or Private: How much do you adhere to local superstitions?

Possible Points of Interest
• The Big Tart, the local bakery that dominates the town’s reputation now that 

logging has fallen out of favor. The Big Tart has a dozen or more student-aged 
employees year round, cranking out a steady supply of butter tarts made from 
Doreen Ellison’s great-grandmother’s secret recipe. In the parking lot is “the 
World’s Biggest Butter Tart,” a 16-foot-tall, photo-worthy fiberglass reproduction 
of the town’s most famous pastry.

• The Ash Grove, a field of tall grass on the edge of town, dominated by the 
presence of a single massive black ash tree. Adults tell kids to steer clear of this 
place after dark.

• The Five & Tens, a local convenience store. Teens know that it’s a good spot to get 
booze because they don’t scrutinize IDs. Kids enjoy picking up comics from the 
spinner rack but, oddly, they never have current issues, only dinged-up old comics 
from 1961. Yet they’re always well stocked...

• Widow’s Peak, a cliff overlooking the bay. The name comes from wives in olden 
days who would gather at the top to look out over the water and see when ships 
were coming in.

• An old lumber mill that was functioning during the early 1900s. Now, it’s only 
known as the key filming location for Lumberjack Dance Party, a forgettable teen 
movie musical from the early 1960s.

Possible NPCs
• Chad Badminton, one of the stars of Lumberjack Dance Party who decided to retire 

in the Tens after his career washed up. Every local who was alive in the ’60s has an 
anecdote about Chad partying up a storm in his prime, but in the past few years 
he’s become quite antisocial, twitchy, and downright strange.

• Doreen Ellison, the matriarchal owner and manager of the Big Tart. She runs the 
town’s famous bakery with a strict hand and brooks no rebellion from her employ-
ees, who she calls her “little sugars.” She expects deference for all she’s brought to 
the Tens, and most of the locals give it to her without complaint.

• Ashley Hunter, the sheriff’s plucky teenage daughter who babysits kids in her 
neighborhood or studies compulsively when she’s not working at the public library. 
She is obsessed with local history, and her current project is looking for information 
about a gap in the town records stretching from 1961-64. She doesn’t yet see any 
darkness in the Tens and imagines she’ll be mayor when she grows up.

• Carol Hunter, sheriff of Tenapanguisine. Carol is patient, kind, and quite used to 
dealing with superstitious townsfolk and rampant rumors. She doesn’t believe in the 
supernatural and actively avoids engaging with any explanation that isn’t rooted 
in real-world science — things she can see and touch.

• Bessie Nye, 95 years old, mostly blind and partially deaf. Children have always 
called her “the witch,” and she doesn’t deny it for a second. Bessie is the oldest 
living resident of the Tens, and if the town has a secret, she knows it.

• Brick Thorpe, local bully. He didn’t graduate from high school so much as he was 
released like a wild animal that never learned how to co-exist with others. He’ll beat 
you for your lunch money, then beat you again for not fighting back hard enough.

PAGE 153



Possible Adventure Hooks
• The Ash Grove is the site of an elementary school that burned down in the early 

1900s. Echoes of that traumatic event have left their mark on the town, both in 
terms of local customs and its spiritual well-being.

• A nosy reporter has been poking around town, digging up dirt on Doreen Ellison. 
He’s convinced that her secret butter tart recipe contains more than just maple 
syrup and a pinch of cinnamon, something downright sinister…

• A graduation bush party up on Widow’s Peak becomes the site of a haunting 
as chaos breaks out. Three teenagers go missing, and the only clue to their 
disappearance is a trio of subtly glowing animal bones, snapped in half, that were 
left behind at the site.

• People hiking in the woods outside town at night report seeing ghostly buildings 
that weren’t there in the daylight. The few brave enough to approach them say 
that the structures are covered in a diaphanous, semi-transparent film that’s cold 
to the touch.

• On the night of the hottest summer day in over 50 years, the bay suddenly freezes 
over with a thick layer of ice, strong enough for even an adult to walk on. What’s 
causing it and why? 

• After a lunar eclipse, the tree-shaped pendants given to 12-year-olds in the Tens 
begin to feel noticeably warm to the touch. The closer anyone comes to Bessie 
Nye’s house, the warmer they get...

Possible Threats
• A group of townies who deeply resent the Bennies (out-of-towners), a resent-

ment that simmers but sometimes reaches the point of violence.
• A group of shadowy developers who want to buy up real estate and raze many 

of the locals’ houses... and the townies who are inexplicably working with them.
• A secret organization that knows the secrets of the town and is quite resistant to 

anyone finding out about them, or that is working to summon something ancient 
and powerful from the ocean — or both.

Possible Powered Characters
• W.K., (aka “the Weird Kid”), a frail young boy, twitchy and nearly mute, whose skin 

is frigidly cold to the touch. 
• A spirit serpent with glowing green eyes that’s only visible under moonlight or 

when seen in a mirror.
• The Little Wanderer, a hyper-intelligent German Shepherd who keeps children out 

of danger. He doesn’t speak, but he seems to fully understand when people to 
talk to him, even if those conversations involve complex commands or emotions.

Possible Monsters
• A ghostly creature wrapped in scraps of the creepy film that clings to the time- 

displaced buildings of the town that sometimes show up at night.
• Human-sized mosquitoes summoned by teenage witches who are desperately 

trying to impress Bessie Nye with their spell-casting skills.
• Tree spirits still howling in pain from the damage done to them by loggers who 

cleared the land to build up the town in its earliest days. 
• Icy tendrils reaching out from the depths of the bay, freezing everything they 

touch.

PAGE 154



We want to give our extreme gratitude to our many 
Kickstarter Backers who helped bring this project to life!

Thanks to you all!

Additional Thanks:
• Banana Chan for her guidance and perfect sense of weirdness
• Anton Kromoff and Dan Raphael for their guidance on issues 

surrounding characters with disabilities or who are neuroatypical
• Nicholas Malinowski for his amazing GMing and wonderful scenarios
• Tim Mattes for his brainstorms and playtesting
• Brian Neff for his wisdom and patient ears
• Ryan Schoon and Thor Hansen for their feedback and support on 

the rules
• Jay Treat for his ideas about character creation and great feedback 

on the questions

Playtesters: Yvonne Apgar, Jack Bathke, Paul Birnbaum, the Danger 
Dice Gang (Derek Halliday, Stacy King, Kean Soo, Andrew Wheeler, 
Tory Woollcott, and Jim Zub), Amy DeMoranville, Kiva Fecteau, Adam 
Fischer, Matt Grossi, Tim Hutchings, Chris O’Neill, Anthony Rando, Jeff 
Stormer, Alex Witzl

PAGE 155



PAGE 156